
000
AXNT20 KNHC 020432
TWDAT

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0615 UTC Thu Jul 2 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for North America, Central America
Gulf of America, Caribbean Sea, northern sections of South
America, and Atlantic Ocean to the African coast from the
Equator to 31N. The following information is based on satellite
imagery, weather observations, radar and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0000 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through 
0431 UTC.

 ...TROPICAL WAVES...

A eastern Atlantic tropical wave is along 19W, from 02N to 19W, 
moving W at 5 to 10 kt. Isolated moderate convection is depicted 
from 06N to 12 N between 17.5W and 24W. 

A central Atlantic tropical wave extends from 02N to 15N with 
axis near 50W, moving westward at 10 kt. Scattered moderate 
convection is noted from 06N to 12N between 46W and 55W. 

A Caribbean tropical wave is along 80.5W, S of 20N, moving W at 
15 to 20 kt. No significant convection is associated with this 
wave at this time. 

...MONSOON TROUGH/ITCZ...

The monsoon trough enters the Atlantic near 21N17W and continues 
southwestward to 08N36W. The ITCZ extends from 08N36W to 07N47W. 
Aside from the convection associated with the tropical waves, 
scattered moderate convection is evident from 05N to 10N between 
25W and 40W. 

...GULF OF AMERICA...

Afternoon scattered moderate convection over Florida has moved 
over the eastern Gulf as it weakens. Scattered to numerous 
moderate convection is occurring over the Bay of Campeche south of
19N. Otherwise, a weak pressure gradient is leading to light to 
gentle winds and slight seas through the basin, except for 
moderate NE winds over the eastern Bay of Campeche.

For the forecast, the weak ridge will dominate the basin through 
the forecast period. A weakening surface trough in the NE Gulf 
will gradually dissipate through Thu, with some showers and 
isolated thunderstorms persisting along the trough. Fresh to 
occasionally strong NE to E winds will pulse off the NW Yucatan 
Peninsula nightly through Sun night due to local effects 
associated with a daily surface trough. Gentle to moderate E to SE
winds will prevail across the western half of the Gulf while 
moderate or weaker winds are expected elsewhere E of 90W. 

...CARIBBEAN SEA...

The subtropical ridge north of the basin continues to force fresh
to near-gale easterly trade winds across much of the central 
Caribbean. Seas in these waters are 6-10 ft. The strongest winds 
and highest seas are offshore Colombia and in the Gulf of
Venezuela. Moderate to fresh easterly breezes and moderate seas 
are found in the eastern Caribbean. Elsewhere, moderate or lighter
winds and slight to moderate seas prevail.

For the forecast, a strong subtropical ridge north of the Azores 
extends a ridge southwestward to the Bahamas, and will generally 
remain in place through the weekend. The pressure gradient between
this ridge and the Colombian Low will support fresh to strong 
trade winds and moderate to rough seas over the central Caribbean 
through Fri morning, then diminish slightly through Sun. Expect 
winds to reach near gale-force each night offshore of Colombia and
in the Gulf of Venezuela. Otherwise, moderate to fresh trades 
will continue in the eastern Caribbean while moderate or weaker 
winds will prevail over the NW part of the basin. Active showers 
and thunderstorms are expected across the SE Caribbean Thu night 
through Fri night as an upper-level trough sinks across the basin.

...ATLANTIC OCEAN...

A surface trough extends from a 1014 mb low near 31N72W to the NW
Bahamas. Isolated showers are found along the trough axis. Another
weak trough is supporting scattered showers north of 28N between 
49W and 62W. The Azores High extends a ridge across the remainder 
of the subtropical Atlantic waters. Winds across the waters S of 
22N are moderate to fresh with moderate seas to 6 ft. N of 17N 
and E of 35W, a tighter pressure gradient with lower pressures 
over NW Africa is leading to fresh to locally strong NE winds 
along with rough seas to 10 ft, including the Canary Islands. 
Moderate or weaker winds and moderate seas prevail elsewhere.

For the forecast west of 55W, the surface trough that extends 
from a 1014 mb low near 31N72W to the NW Bahamas will gradually 
dissipate through Thu while drifting northwestward toward the 
southeastern U.S. coast. The Atlantic ridge will then build weakly
westward into central Florida through the weekend. This pattern 
will support moderate to locally fresh E-SE trade winds S of 22N, 
and moderate or weaker winds elsewhere. Expect fresh to locally 
strong winds each late afternoon into the early evening hours near
the coasts of Hispaniola and Puerto Rico. 

$$
KRV
