
000
AXNT20 KNHC 150427
TWDAT

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0615 UTC Mon Jun 15 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for North America, Central America
Gulf of America, Caribbean Sea, northern sections of South
America, and Atlantic Ocean to the African coast from the
Equator to 31N. The following information is based on satellite
imagery, weather observations, radar and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0000 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through 
0355 UTC.

...TROPICAL WAVES...

A tropical wave has been introduced in the far eastern Atlantic
along 19W, south of 16N, based on satellite imagery, total 
precipitable water and wave diagnostic data. The wave is moving 
westward at 10-15 kt. Scattered moderate convection is observed 
from 02N to 11N and east of 24W.

An eastern Atlantic tropical wave is along 33W, south of 16N, 
moving westward at 15 kt. Scattered moderate convection is present
from 02N to 09N and between 25W and 38W.

A central Atlantic tropical wave is along 50W, south of 18N, 
moving westward at 15 kt. Scattered moderate convection is 
present from 04N to 08N and west of 45W.

An eastern Caribbean Sea tropical wave is along 67W, south of 
18N, moving westward at 15-20 kt. Scattered moderate convection is
occurring south of 14N and between the wave and 61W.

The tropical wave previously in the western Caribbean Sea has
moved into the eastern Pacific. Please read the Eastern Pacific's 
Tropical Weather Discussion for more details.

...MONSOON TROUGH/ITCZ...

The monsoon trough enters the Atlantic through the coast of
Senegal near 14N17W and continues southwestward to 07N26W. The 
ITCZ extends from 07N26W to 05N33W and then from 05N36W to 05N49W.
Please read the TROPICAL WAVES section above for details on the
convection.

...GULF OF AMERICA...

A weak high pressure over the NE Gulf waters dominates the basin,
supporting moderate to fresh E-SE winds and moderate seas across 
the western Gulf and off northern Yucatan. Elsewhere, light to 
gentle winds and slight seas prevail. 

For the forecast, a trough of low pressure located over northeastern
Mexico will remain inland and drift northward over northeastern 
Mexico and then into southern Texas through Wed. The system could
re-emerge over the northwestern Gulf Wed, where environmental 
conditions may support some development around midweek. The 
pressure gradient between the trough and a ridge across the Gulf 
region will support fresh to strong southerly winds over the 
western Gulf, and moderate to fresh winds over the eastern Gulf, 
likely through Thu, as the pressure gradient tightens further. 

...CARIBBEAN SEA...

A few showers and thunderstorms are noted off Panama, Costa Rica
and Cuba. The tight pressure gradient between the subtropical 
ridge over the central Atlantic and lower pressures in northern 
South America forces fresh to strong easterly trade winds and 
moderate to rough seas over much of the basin, south of 19N. The
strongest winds and highest seas are noted off Colombia. 
Elsewhere, moderate or lighter winds and slight to moderate seas 
are prevalent. 

For the forecast, 1023 mb high pressure near 26N62W extends a ridge
westward through the central Bahamas and into the eastern Gulf of
America. The pressure gradient between this ridge and the Colombian
low will continue to support a large area of fresh to strong 
trade winds and moderate to rough seas across the central 
Caribbean through early Mon. Then, the ridge will reorganize to 
the E Mon through early Tue, then shift slowly NE through Thu, 
leading to a slight decrease in wind and seas across the basin. 
Expect highest winds and seas off the coast of Colombia. Pulsing 
winds to fresh to strong speeds are expected in the Gulf of 
Honduras nightly through Fri.

...ATLANTIC OCEAN...

An expansive subtropical ridge dominates the tropical Atlantic,
supporting fresh to locally strong easterly trade winds and
seas of 5-8 ft south of 24N and between 60W and 75W. Moderate to
fresh easterly winds and seas of 5-8 ft are found south of 20N and
west of 35W. In the far east, moderate to fresh N-NE winds and
seas of 6-8 ft are found north of 16N and east of 30W. Elsewhere,
moderate or weaker winds and moderate seas are prevalent. 

For the forecast west of 55W, 1023 mb high pressure near 26N62W
extends a ridge westward through the central Bahamas and into the
eastern Gulf of America. The ridge will generally remain in place
through early Mon, then reorganize to the E Mon through early 
Tue, then shift slowly NE through Thu. This pattern will support 
moderate to fresh E to SE trade winds S of 22N through Wed. Fresh 
SW winds are expected across the NW waters N of 29N and W of 74W 
tonight through early Mon, then expand eastward to 70W through 
early Wed, as a weak frontal system moves through the SE U.S. 
Expect fresh to strong winds each afternoon through late evening 
across Atlantic waters near Puerto Rico and Hispaniola. 

$$
Delgado
