
000
AXNT20 KNHC 050321
TWDAT 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0615 UTC Fri Jun 5 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for North America, Central America
Gulf of America, Caribbean Sea, northern sections of South
America, and Atlantic Ocean to the African coast from the
Equator to 31N. The following information is based on satellite
imagery, weather observations, radar and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0000 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through 
0315 UTC.

...SPECIAL FEATURES...

Gale Warning East of 35W: The pressure gradient between the 1030 
mb high pressure system centered southwest of the Azores and lower
pressures in northwest Africa result in strong to gale-force 
northerly winds in the Agadir High Seas Marine Zones. 
Scatterometer data from 04/2132Z UTC showed strong to gale-force 
winds peaking at 34 kt occurring off the coast of Morocco. Gale-
force winds are expected to occur through 05/0000 UTC with severe 
gusts. These winds will produce rough seas 10 ft and higher. 
Similar conditions will persist into the weekend. For more 
details, refer to the Meteo- France High Seas Forecast listed on 
their website https://wwmiws.wmo.int.

...TROPICAL WAVES...

An eastern Atlantic tropical wave is along 20W, south of 13N, 
moving west at 10 kt. Scattered moderate convection is present 
from 04N to 09N and between 16W and 24W.

A central Atlantic tropical wave is along 44W, south of 12N, 
moving westward at 15-20 kt. Scattered moderate to isolated 
strong convection is evident from 02N to 08N and between 37W and 
45W.

Another central Atlantic tropical wave is along 55W, south of 
16N, moving westward at 15 kt. Scattered moderate to isolated 
strong convection is observed south of 12N and between 45W and 
60W.

An eastern Caribbean tropical wave is along 68W, south of 15N, 
moving westward at 15 kt. No deep convection is noted over the 
Caribbean waters. The wave is enhancing shower and thunderstorm 
activity across northern South America.

...MONSOON TROUGH/ITCZ...

The monsoon trough enters the Atlantic through the coast of
Mauritania near 19N16W and continues southwestward to 06N30W. The
ITCZ extends from 06N30W to 04N43W, and then from 03N45W to the 
coast of Brazil near 01N50W. The convection near these features
has been described in the TROPICAL WAVES section above.

...GULF OF AMERICA...

A stationary front extend through the Florida Straits to near 
25N86W in the eastern Gulf. Meanwhile, a weak surface is analyzed
along 89W, from the Yucatan peninsula to 28N87W. Scattered
moderate to isolated strong convection is seen over the SE Gulf
waters, while diurnal storms across the Gulf coast of Mexico
extend into the nearshore waters. Fresh to locally strong easterly
winds and seas of 4-8 ft are present in the northern and eastern 
Gulf waters. Elsewhere, moderate or weaker winds and slight seas
prevail.

For the forecast, scattered thunderstorms will continue this 
evening over the south-central and southeast Gulf. Winds and seas 
will diminish starting Fri as a ridge builds from the western 
Atlantic into the eastern Gulf. This pattern will support gentle 
to moderate E to SE winds and slight to moderate seas into early 
next week, except for occasionally fresh to strong pulses off 
northwest Yucatan during the evenings.

...CARIBBEAN SEA...

A 1030 mb high pressure system centered southwest of the Azores 
extends southwestward to the Caribbean Sea, supporting fresh to 
strong easterly trade winds and moderate seas in the south-
central Caribbean and Gulf of Honduras. Moderate to fresh 
easterly winds and moderate seas are noted in the north-central 
and eastern Caribbean. Elsewhere, moderate or lighter winds and 
slight to moderate seas prevail. The storm activity is diminishing
in the SW Caribbean, while a few showers are seen in the lee of
Cuba. Pockets of low-level moisture are also evident across the
basin sustaining fast-moving, shallow showers.

For the forecast, moderate to fresh E to SE trade winds and moderate
seas will persist across the Caribbean into Sat as the Atlantic
ridge north of the area weakens and shifts eastward. The
exceptions will be fresh to strong pulses off western Venezuela 
tonight, and in the Gulf of Honduras tonight and Fri night. Fresh 
to strong SE winds and building are possible over the northwest 
and north-central Caribbean late Sat through early next week as 
the Atlantic ridge rebuilds north of area. 

...ATLANTIC OCEAN...

Please read the Special Features section about a Gale Warning in
the far northeast Atlantic.

A cold front extends from near Bermuda to the central Bahamas,
followed by a stationary front to the Florida Straits. Scattered
showers are present ahead of the front, especially north of 27N.
The remainder of the tropical Atlantic is dominated by a broad
subtropical ridge, supporting moderate to locally fresh and
moderate seas across much of the central and western tropical
Atlantic. Fresh to strong N-NE winds and rough seas are found
north of 18N and east of 35W. 

For the forecast west of 55W, the front will dissipate Fri into 
Sat, as high pressure builds across the area. This pattern will 
allow gentle to moderate winds and moderate seas into early next 
week. 

$$
Delgado
