
000
AXNT20 KNHC 011100
TWDAT 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1215 UTC Wed Jul 1 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for North America, Central America
Gulf of America, Caribbean Sea, northern sections of South
America, and Atlantic Ocean to the African coast from the
Equator to 31N. The following information is based on satellite
imagery, weather observations, radar and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0600 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through 
1040 UTC.

 ...TROPICAL WAVES...

A tropical wave is west of the Cape Verde Islands with axis near 
26W, moving westward at 15 kt. Scattered moderate convection is 
confined to the monsoon trough region from 07N to 10N between 24W
and 29W.

A tropical wave extends from 02N to 15N with axis near 46W, 
moving westward at 15-20 kt. Scattered moderate convection is 
present from 05N to 10N and between 40W and 50W.

A tropical wave is moving across western Hispaniola and the
central Caribbean. The wave axis is near 74W, south of 19N, and 
moving westward at 15 kt. Isolated showers are ongoing in the
Windward Passage while scattered showers are offshore Colombia and
E Panama.

A tropical wave is moving across Central America with axis near 
84W, south of 19N, and moving westward near 15 kt. Scattered
moderate convection is offshore Costa Rica and western Gulf of
Honduras. 

...MONSOON TROUGH/ITCZ...

The monsoon trough enters the Atlantic through the coast of
W Africa near 22N16W and continues southwestward to 08N31W. The 
ITCZ extends from 08N31W to 07N58W. Aside from the convection
associated with the tropivcal waves, scattered moderate 
convection is evident from 05N to 15N between 12W and 20W, and
from 06N to 09N west of 50W.

...GULF OF AMERICA...

The Gulf is dominated by a weak ridge that supports gentle to 
moderate SE winds and slight seas W of 90W, and light to gentle
winds and slight seas over the remainder Gulf. There are two
surface troughs, one extending from SE Louisiana to the SW 
Florida seaboard, which is generating scattered showers over the 
NE Gulf, and a second trough is in the Bay of Campeche where is
generating similar shower activity. 

For the forecast, surface ridging will continue to dominate the 
Gulf region the remainder of the week. Fresh to locally strong NE 
to E winds will pulse off the NW Yucatan Peninsula nightly through
Sun night due to local effects associated with a surface trough. 
Gentle to moderate E to SE winds will prevail across the western 
half of the Gulf while moderate or weaker winds are expected 
elsewhere E of 90W, except for light to gentle winds in the NE 
Gulf. 

...CARIBBEAN SEA...

The subtropical ridge north of the basin continues to force fresh
to near-gale easterly trade winds across much of the central 
Caribbean. Seas in these waters are 5-10 ft. The strongest winds 
and highest seas are offshore NW Colombia. Moderate to fresh 
easterly breezes and moderate seas are found in the eastern 
Caribbean. Elsewhere, moderate or lighter winds and slight to 
moderate seas prevail.

For the forecast, the Bermuda-Azores High north of the basin 
combined with the Colombian Low will support fresh to strong trade
winds over the central Caribbean through Sun night, except 
offshore Colombia and in the Gulf of Venezuela where winds are 
likely to reach near gale-force at night. Moderate to rough seas 
are expected with the strongest winds. Otherwise, moderate to 
fresh trades will continue in the eastern Caribbean while moderate
or weaker winds will prevail over the NW part of the basin.

...ATLANTIC OCEAN...

A stationary front is across the NW waters, extending from 31N72W
to 28N79W. Scattered showers are ahead of the front to about 68W
and N of 27N. Farther east, a pre-frontal trough extends from
31N58W to 28N66W, which is generating scattered showers between
55W and 62W. The Azores High extends a ridge across the remainder
subtropical Atlantic waters. Winds across these waters are
moderate or weaker with moderate seas to 6 ft. East of 34W, a
tighter pressure gradient with lower pressures over NW Africa is
leading to fresh to locally strong NE winds along with rough seas
to 10 ft, including the Canary Islands.

For the forecast west of 55W, the stattionary front will 
dissipate later today and its remnant trough will drift southward 
before moving WNW toward the southeastern U.S. coast late tonight
into Thu. Under this weather pattern, moderate or weaker winds 
are expected, except for moderate to fresh winds offshore 
Hispaniola mainly late in the afternoons into the early evening 
hours. 

$$
Ramos
