
933 
AXNT20 KNHC 060333
TWDAT 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0615 UTC Sat Jun 6 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for North America, Central America
Gulf of America, Caribbean Sea, northern sections of South
America, and Atlantic Ocean to the African coast from the
Equator to 31N. The following information is based on satellite
imagery, weather observations, radar and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0000 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through 
0300 UTC.

...TROPICAL WAVES...

A tropical wave is in the process of moving into the far eastern
Atlantic Ocean from western Africa.

A tropical wave is in the eastern Atlantic Ocean along 28W, south
of 13N, analyzed more to the W compared to several hours ago 
based on the latest derived proxy visible satellite imagery, TPW 
imagery, scatterometer data, and tropical wave model diagnostics. 
Scattered moderate isolated strong convection is noted from 03N to
06N between 25W and 32.5W.

A tropical wave is in the central Atlantic Ocean along 52W, south
of 17N, moving westward at 15-20 kt. Scattered moderate isolated 
strong convection is evident from 02N to 11N between 44W and 57W.

A tropical wave is now in the far eastern Caribbean Sea along 
62W, south of 17N, moving westward at 15-20 kt. Associated 
convection is now mainly confined inland over portions of 
Venezuela.

A tropical wave is moving from the central to the western
Caribbean Sea along 77W/78W, south of 18N or eastern Jamaica. 
This tropical wave is now analyzed quite a bit more to the W 
compared to several hours ago based on all available analysis 
tools. Scattered moderate to strong convection is active near the 
northern portion from 14N to 19N between 73W and 78W.

...MONSOON TROUGH/ITCZ...

The monsoon trough enters the Atlantic from the coast of western
Africa near 12.5N16W and continues southwestward to 04N31W. The 
ITCZ extends from 04N31W to 06N51W with a tropical wave just to
the W. Scattered moderate isolated strong convection is noted 
from 02N to 04N between 21W and 26W. Additional convection is
described above with two tropical waves in the Atlantic Ocean.

...GULF OF AMERICA...

A weak surface trough, partially the western remnants of an old
frontal boundary, is losing definition over the NW Gulf. Some
scattered showers and isolated thunderstorms are possible near
this feature. This trough combined within ridging over the 
southeastern United States supports fresh to locally strong winds 
near SE Louisiana and offshore Mississippi and Alabama. A surface
trough is analyzed over the western Yucatan Peninsula along 90W 
to the S of 23N. This trough supports fresh to strong N-E winds 
along the coast and just offshore of the northern and western 
Yucatan, along with 5-7 ft seas. Mainly gentle to moderate E-SE 
winds prevail across the remainder of the basin, locally fresh 
near and through the Straits of Florida. Seas are 2-5 ft across 
the remainder of the basin, lowest in the eastern Gulf coastal 
waters of Florida, and offshore Veracruz.

For the forecast, gentle to moderate winds will prevail across 
the Gulf region. The exception will be off the Yucatan Peninsula, 
where a diurnal trough will support moderate winds to pulse to 
fresh, occasionally strong, during the evenings. 

...CARIBBEAN SEA...

Please see the Tropical Waves section above for details on a
tropical wave now in the far eastern Caribbean Sea and another
moving from the central to western Caribbean Sea, including
associated convection.

Otherwise, some scattered convection is possible in the SW
Caribbean Sea near the extension of the eastern Pacific monsoon
trough along 10N/11N. Ridging from the central and eastern
Atlantic mid-latitudes extends to just N of the Greater Antilles.
This ridging combined with the tropical waves supports moderate to
fresh winds in the central and eastern Caribbean, locally fresh in
the S-central, and fresh to strong E-SE winds in the Gulf of 
Honduras. Mainly gentle to moderate winds prevail across the
remainder of the basin, except light and variable in the SW
Caribbean near the monsoon trough. Seas are 4-6 ft across much of
the basin, except 3-4 ft in the SW Caribbean, and 2-3 ft in the
Lee of Cuba in the NW Caribbean.

For the forecast, moderate to fresh E to SE trade winds and 
moderate seas will persist across the Caribbean into Sat as the 
Atlantic ridge north of the area weakens and shifts eastward. The 
exception will be fresh to strong pulses in the Gulf of Honduras 
tonight. Winds will begin to increase again over the central 
Caribbean by Sat night, and over the NW part of the basin early 
next week as the pressure gradient tightens between the Atlantic 
ridge and broad area of low pressure over the eastern Pacific 
offshore of Central America. 

...ATLANTIC OCEAN...

The most recent High Seas Forecast issued by Meteo-France had the
Gale Warning in the Agadir forecast zone/region ending at 0000
UTC.

Please refer to the Tropical Waves section for details on
convection and two tropical waves moving through the Atlantic.

A stationary front extends from N of the area through 31N63.5W to
near the SE Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands where it is
dissipating. Associated widely scattered showers and isolated
thunderstorms can be found on either side of the front. Moderate
to fresh S-S winds are noted N of 26N within about 60-120 nm ahead
of the front, along with 5-6 ft seas. High pressure of 1020 mb is
behind the front offshore the Carolinas near 33N76W. Moderate to
locally fresh NE-E flow is found near and through the Bahamas to
the Straits of Florida, with gentle to moderate winds elsewhere
behind the front. Seas are mainly 4-6 ft W of the front in a mix
of swells. 

To the E, high pressure of 1030 mb near 34N33W dominates the
waters E of the stationary front. The pressure gradient between
the high and lower pressures over NW Africa supports fresh to
strong N-NE winds N of 17N and E of 20W, with seas of 7-12 ft.
Mainly moderate to fresh NE-E winds are found elsewhere N of 15N
and E of 40W, and S of 20N and W of 30W, along with seas of 6-8
ft in mainly NE-E swells. Gentle to moderate anticyclonic flow 
prevails across the remainder of the waters E of the front in the 
Atlantic. Seas of 4-6 ft are across the remainder of the basin E
of the front.

For the forecast west of 55W, a frontal boundary extending from 
near Bermuda to the central Bahamas and western Cuba will 
dissipate late into Sat. High pressure will build in the wake of 
the front. This pattern will support gentle to moderate winds and 
moderate seas into early next week. 

$$
Lewitsky

