
000
AXNT20 KNHC 232317
TWDAT

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0015 UTC Fri Jul 24 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for North America, Central America
Gulf of America, Caribbean Sea, northern sections of South
America, and Atlantic Ocean to the African coast from the
Equator to 31N. The following information is based on satellite
imagery, weather observations, radar and meteorological analysis.

Based on 1800 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through
2300 UTC.

...SPECIAL FEATURE...

Tropical Storm Bertha is moving inland over eastern Texas. Heavy
rains are spreading across portions of coastal Texas. At 23/2100
UTC, Bertha is centered near 29.8N 94.7W at 23/2100 UTC or 30 nm
N of Galveston Texas, moving WNW at 11 kt. Estimated minimum 
central pressure is 1006 mb. Maximum sustained wind speed is 35 
kt with gusts to 45 kt. On the forecast track, the center of Bertha 
will move across portions of eastern Texas during the next several
hours. Bertha is expected to gradually weaken, and it is forecast
to dissipate tonight or on Friday. Bertha is expected to produce 
total rainfall amounts of 1 to 3 inches with isolated totals to 
4 inches into tonight along the Texas Gulf Coast and South Texas.
This rainfall may produce isolated flash flooding, especially in
urban areas. Swells generated by Bertha will continue to affect the
Louisiana and Texas coast through tonight. These swells are 
likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions.
Please consult products from your local weather office.

Please read the latest HIGH SEAS FORECAST issued by the National 
Hurricane Center at website - 
https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIAHSFAT2.shtml and the latest 
Bertha NHC Forecast/Advisory and Public Advisory at 
www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

...TROPICAL WAVES...

A tropical wave is just E of the Cabo Verde Islands along 22W, 
moving westward at 10 kt. Scattered showers, with embedded 
thunderstorms, are noted near the southern end of the wave axis,
mainly from 06N to 10N between 20W and 25W. 

Another tropical wave has its axis along 46W, moving westward at
10 to 15 kt. An area of showers and thunderstorms is noted E of
the wave axis affecting mainly the waters from 10N to 15N between
37W and 42W

A third tropical wave is east of the Lesser Antilles along 58W 
moving westward at 15 to 20 kt. Convection is limited near the
wave axis at this time. The wave will move across the Lesser
Antilles tonight, and over the eastern Caribbean on Fri.

...MONSOON TROUGH/ITCZ...

The monsoon trough enters the Atlantic through the coast of 
Senegal near Dakar and continues SW, then W to near 10N31W. The 
ITCZ extends from that point to 09N56W. Scattered moderate 
convection is noted along the ITCZ and W of 40W.

...GULF OF AMERICA...

Please refer to the Special Features section for details on 
T.S. Bertha forecast to dissipate tonight or on Fri.

Elsewhere outside of Bertha, moderate or weaker winds and slight 
to moderate seas prevail as high pressure becomes established 
over the NE Gulf.

For the forecast, Bertha will move inland and weaken to a tropical
depression near 29.7N 97.2W Fri morning, and dissipate Fri 
afternoon. In the wake of Bertha, a high pressure center will 
become established over the NE Gulf through Fri, then shift to 
the central Gulf. The high pressure will provide for a light to 
gentle wind flow across the basin, except for pulsing moderate to
fresh winds off the Yucatan Peninsula and near NE Mexico and the
Texas coast through the weekend. 

...CARIBBEAN SEA...

The presence of a surface trough north of the basin has reduced 
the usual north-south pressure gradient over the Caribbean Sea. 
As a result, fresh to strong winds are noted per scatterometer 
data in the south-central Caribbean where seas are in the 6 to 8
ft range based on altimeter data. Moderate to fresh trade winds
and moderate seas are over the eastern Caribbean while gentle to
moderate winds with slight to moderate seas prevail elsewhere.
Convection has flared up over most of Cuba, the Cayman Islands,
Jamaica, and parts of Hispaniola, especially in Haiti. An upper 
level-low located over the Cayman Islands is helping to induce 
this convective activity.

For the forecast, the Atlantic ridge combined with the Colombian
low will support fresh to strong winds with moderate to rough 
seas across the south-central Caribbean through the forecast 
period. Fresh to strong winds will pulse across the Gulf of 
Honduras Sat night and Sun night. Moderate or weaker winds with 
slight to moderate seas will prevail elsewhere.

...ATLANTIC OCEAN...

Three tropical waves are moving westward between the W coast of 
Africa and the Lesser Antilles. Refer to the Tropical Waves 
section for more details. 

A surface trough persists over the western Atlantic, and now 
extends from 30N75W to the central Bahamas. A large area of 
showers and thunderstorms remains associated with this trough 
covering the waters from 22N to 31N between 57W and the trough 
axis. High pressure dominates the remainder of the Atlantic 
forecast region. Fresh to strong northerly winds are between the
Canary Islands due to the pressure gradient between the Atlantic
ridge and lower pressures over NW Africa. Moderate to locally
fresh winds are noted elsewhere E of 70W with moderate seas.
Gentle to moderate winds and slight to moderate seas prevail W 
of 70W, including the Bahamas. 

For the forecast west of 55W, the aforementioned trough will 
continue westward reaching the central and South Florida Fri. 
Scattered showers and thunderstorms will accompany the trough. 
Fresh trade winds are expected offshore Hispaniola, including 
approaches to the Windward Passage through Sat night. Moderate or
weaker winds along with moderate seas are forecast elsewhere. 
Looking ahead, a cold front will approach the waters east of 
northern Florida Sat night through Sun night, preceded by fresh 
to strong southwest winds north of about 28N and east of 75W. 

$$
GR
