
000
AXNT20 KNHC 240613
TWDAT

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0615 UTC Fri Jul 24 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for North America, Central America
Gulf of America, Caribbean Sea, northern sections of South
America, and Atlantic Ocean to the African coast from the
Equator to 31N. The following information is based on satellite
imagery, weather observations, radar and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0000 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through 
0550 UTC.

...SPECIAL FEATURE...

Remnants Of Bertha is centered near 30.0N 96.0W at 24/0300 UTC
or 30 nm WNW of Houston Texas, moving W at 12 kt. Estimated
minimum central pressure is 1008 mb. Maximum sustained wind
speed is 30 kt with gusts to 40 kt. Peak seas are 6 ft. Swells 
generated by the remnants of Bertha will continue to affect the 
Louisiana and Texas coast through tonight. These swells are likely
to cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions. Please
consult products from your local weather office. This is the last
public advisory issued by the National Hurricane Center on this 
system.

Please read the latest HIGH SEAS FORECAST issued by the National 
Hurricane Center at website - 
https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIAHSFAT2.shtml and the latest 
Bertha NHC Forecast/Advisory and Public Advisory at 
www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

...TROPICAL WAVES...

A tropical wave is over the Cabo Verde Islands along 24W, moving 
westward at 10 kt. Scattered moderate convection is confined to
the monsoon from 08N to 13N between 18W and 26W.

A tropical wave is in the central Atlantic extending from 09N to
19N with axis near 47W, moving westward at 10 to 15 kt. Scattered
moderate convection is from 07N to 18N between 37W and 52W.

A third tropical wave is east of the Lesser Antilles along 60W 
moving westward at approximately 15 kt. The wave is devoid of deep
convection at this time.

...MONSOON TROUGH/ITCZ...

The monsoon trough enters the Atlantic through the coast of 
Senegal near Dakar and continues SW to 09N24W to 08N30W. The ITCZ
extends from that point to 09N45W to 07N58W. Aside from the
convection associated with the tropical waves, scattered moderate
convection is noted from 06N to 13N between 26W and 35W.

...GULF OF AMERICA...

Please refer to the Special Features section for details on the 
remnants of Bertha.

Tropical Storm Bertha has moved inland into Texas, weakened into 
a tropical depression, and is now dissipating. The remnants of 
Bertha are near 30.0N 96.0W at 11 PM EDT, moving west at 12 kt. 
Maximum sustained winds are 30 kt with gusts to 40 kt, and the 
minimum central pressure is 1008 mb.

Elsewhere outside of Bertha, a 1018 mb high developed over the NE
Gulf, which is supporting light to gentle variable winds in that
region and gentle to moderate E winds over the SE Gulf. The
gradient of pressure between the remnants of Bertha and the high
is supporting moderate to fresh SE winds over the NW basin and NE
winds of the same speed over the Bay of Campeche. Seas basin-wide
are mainly slight with locally moderate seas offshore Texas. 

For the forecast, Bertha will dissipate Fri morning. In the wake
of Bertha, a high pressure center will become established over 
the NE Gulf through Fri, then shift to the central Gulf. The high 
pressure will provide for a light to gentle wind flow across the 
basin, except for pulsing moderate to fresh winds off the Yucatan 
Peninsula and near NE Mexico and the Texas coast through the 
weekend. 

...CARIBBEAN SEA...

The presence of a surface trough north of the basin has reduced 
the usual north-south pressure gradient over the Caribbean Sea. 
As a result, fresh to strong winds are noted in the south-central
Caribbean where seas are in the 5 to 8 ft range. Moderate to 
fresh trade winds and moderate seas are over the eastern Caribbean
while gentle to moderate winds with slight seas prevail elsewhere.
An upper level-low located near the Cayman Islands continue to
support scattered showers over the NW basin and Windward Passage.
In the SW Caribbean, the E Pacific extension of the monsoon
support scattered heavy showers S of 15N. 

For the forecast, the pressure gradient between the Atlantic 
ridge and the Colombian low will support fresh to strong winds 
with moderate to rough seas across the south-central Caribbean 
through the forecast period. Fresh to locally strong winds will 
pulse across the Gulf of Honduras Sat night and Sun night. 
Moderate or weaker winds with slight to moderate seas will prevail
elsewhere. 

...ATLANTIC OCEAN...

Refer to the Tropical Waves section for more details on these
features.

A trough extending from near 30N75W and across the central 
Bahamas continues to generate scattered showers over the offshores
W of 58W to the N of 22N. High pressure dominates the remainder 
of the Atlantic forecast region. Fresh to strong northerly winds
and rough seas to 10 ft prevail over the Canary Islands due to 
the pressure gradient between the Atlantic ridge and lower 
pressures over NW Africa. Moderate to locally fresh winds are 
noted elsewhere E of 65W with moderate seas.

For the forecast west of 55W, the aforementioned trough will 
continue to drift west to central and South Florida Fri. Scattered
thunderstorms will accompany the trough. Fresh trade winds are 
expected offshore Hispaniola, including approaches to the Windward
Passage into Sun. Moderate or weaker winds along with moderate 
seas are forecast elsewhere. Looking ahead, a cold front will 
approach the waters east of northern Florida Sat night through Sun
night, preceded by fresh to locally strong southwest winds north 
of about 28N and east of 75W.

$$
Ramos
