
923 
AXNT20 KNHC 240616
TWDAT 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0615 UTC Wed Jun 24 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for North America, Central America
Gulf of America, Caribbean Sea, northern sections of South
America, and Atlantic Ocean to the African coast from the
Equator to 31N. The following information is based on satellite
imagery, weather observations, radar and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0000 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through 
0550 UTC.

...TROPICAL WAVES...

The axis of an eastern tropical wave is near 28W from 14N 
southward, moving westward at around 15 kt. Scattered moderate 
convection is observed from 03N to 09N between 24W and 33W. 

The axis of a tropical wave is near 55W from 16N southward, 
moving westward at 15 to 20 kt. Scattered moderate isolated 
strong convection is seen from 06N to 10N between 47W and 59W.

The axis of a tropical wave is near 63W from 17N southward, 
moving westward at 10 to 15 kt. Scattered moderate convection is 
from 09N to 14N between 59W and 66W. 

...MONSOON TROUGH/ITCZ...

The monsoon trough enters the Atlantic ocean near 15N16W and 
curves southwestward to 05N39W. The ITCZ extends from 05N39W to 
05N52W. For information on convection, see the tropical waves
section above.  

...GULF OF AMERICA...

High pressure prevails across the area, anchored by a 1020 mb 
high centered near 27N91W. Light to gentle winds and slight seas
are across the Gulf waters N of 24N and E of 94W. A tighter 
pressure gradient between the ridge and lower pressure along 
Mexico is supporting moderate E to SE winds W of 94W while a 
surface trough extending from the northern Yucatan Peninsula to 
the E Bay of Campeche supports moderate to fresh NE winds off 
western Yucatan. Otherwise, heavy showers and tstms are ongoing 
offshore Veracruz likely generating gusty winds and moderate to 
rough seas.

For the forecast, the western end of the western Atlantic ridge, 
near the north-central Gulf will dominate much of basin through 
the weekend. Gentle to moderate anticyclonic winds will generally 
prevail across the basin during this time, except for fresh to 
strong NE to E winds pulsing off the northwestern Yucatan 
Peninsula nightly through Wed night, then mainly fresh winds there
afterward. 

...CARIBBEAN SEA...

The Atlantic ridge extends west-southwestward from east of 
Bermuda to the northern Caribbean. The pressure gradient between 
this area of high pressure and the Colombian low is supporting 
fresh to near gale-force winds over the central Caribbean, with 
seas in the 8-12 ft range. Fresh to strong NE winds are ongoing in
the Windward Passage while E winds of the same magnitude are also
ongoing in the Gulf of Honduras. Moderate to fresh winds, and 
moderate seas to 7 ft are across the E basin. Moderate or weaker
NE to E winds are elsewhere in the NW Caribbean.  

For the forecast, a strong pressure gradient between a ridge N of
the region and the Colombian low will support fresh to strong 
trade winds, and rough seas in the central basin through Wed 
morning, then become confined to the south-central basin Wed and 
Wed night before expanding northward again Thu through the 
weekend. Expect winds at near-gale force offshore of northwestern 
Colombia, during the nighttime and early morning hours, except Fri
in which winds will stay at near-gale force. Pulsing fresh to 
strong winds and moderate to locally rough seas are expected in 
the Gulf of Honduras nightly through Sat night. Fresh trades with 
rough seas should persist east of the Lesser Antilles through 
early Thu morning, diminishing to moderate winds and seas 
afterward.

...ATLANTIC OCEAN...

High pressure dominates the discussion waters N of 20N and
supporting moderate or weaker winds, and moderate seas, except
for fresh NE to E winds N of Hispaniola. In the tropics, the
tropical waves are supporting 7 to 8 ft seas.

For the forecast west of 55W, the tail end of a weakening cold 
front will bring fresh to strong winds and some thunderstorms off 
northeastern Florida tonight. Otherwise, a broad ridge extending 
west-southwestward from east of Bermuda into southern Florida 
will dominate the western Atlantic through the weekend. Fresh to 
strong easterly winds with locally rough seas are expected near 
the northern coast of Hispaniola each late afternoon through night
through Fri night. Otherwise, moderate to locally fresh trade 
winds and moderate seas are expected south of 22N through Thu 
before diminishing. Moderate or lighter winds and moderate seas 
will prevail elsewhere. 

$$
Ramos

