
135 
ABNT20 KNHC 011121
TWOAT 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
800 AM EDT Mon Jun 1 2026

For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of America:

Tropical cyclone formation is not expected during the next 7 days.

&&
Today marks the first day of the Atlantic hurricane season, which
will run until November 30. The long-term averages for the number of
named storms, hurricanes, and major hurricanes are 14, 7, and 3,
respectively.

The list of names for 2026 is as follows:

Name         Pronunciation       Name         Pronunciation
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Arthur       AR-thur             Leah         LEE-ah
Bertha       BUR-thuh            Marco        MAR-koe
Cristobal    krees-TOH-bahl      Nana         NA-na
Dolly        DAH-lee             Omar         OH-mar
Edouard      eh-DWARD            Paulette     pawl-LET 
Fay          fay                 Rene         re-NAY
Gonzalo      gohn-SAH-loh        Sally        SAL-ee
Hanna        HAN-uh              Teddy        TEHD-ee
Isaias       ees-ah-EE-ahs       Vicky        VIH-kee
Josephine    JOH-seh-feen        Wilfred      WILL-fred
Kyle         KY-ull

A full list of Atlantic basin tropical cyclone names and
pronunciations can be found at:
www.nhc.noaa.gov/pdf/aboutnames_pronounce_atlc.pdf

This product, the Tropical Weather Outlook, briefly describes 
significant areas of disturbed weather and their potential for 
tropical cyclone formation during the next seven days.  The issuance 
times of this product are 2 AM, 8 AM, 2 PM, and 8 PM EDT.  After the 
change to standard time in November, the issuance times are 1 AM,  
7 AM, 1 PM, and 7 PM EST.

A Special Tropical Weather Outlook will be issued to provide 
updates, as necessary, in between the regularly scheduled issuances 
of the Tropical Weather Outlook.  Special Tropical Weather Outlooks 
will be issued under the same WMO and AWIPS headers as the regular 
Tropical Weather Outlooks.

A standard package of products, consisting of the tropical cyclone 
public advisory, the forecast/advisory, the cyclone discussion, and 
a wind speed probability product is issued every six hours for all 
ongoing tropical cyclones.  In addition, a special advisory package 
may be issued at any time to advise of significant unexpected 
changes or to modify watches or warnings.

NHC has the option to issue advisories, watches, and warnings for 
disturbances that are not yet a tropical cyclone, but which pose the 
threat of bringing tropical storm or hurricane conditions to land 
areas within 72 hours.  For these land-threatening "potential 
tropical cyclones", NHC will issue the full suite of advisory and 
watch/warning products.  Potential tropical cyclones share the 
naming conventions currently in place for tropical depressions, 
being numbered from a single list (e.g., "One", "Two", "Three", 
etc.).

The Tropical Cyclone Update is a brief statement to inform of 
significant changes in a tropical cyclone, to post or cancel watches 
or warnings, or to provide hourly position updates between 
intermediate advisories when the storm center is easily followed by 
radar.  It can also be used in lieu of or to precede the issuance of 
a special advisory package.  Tropical Cyclone Updates, which can be 
issued at any time, can be found under the WMO header WTNT61-65 
KNHC, and under AWIPS header MIATCUAT1-5.

All NHC text and graphical products are available on the web at
https://www.hurricanes.gov.  More information on NHC text and
graphical products can be found at
https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/pdf/NHC_Product_Description.pdf. 
New and updated products for the 2026 season can be found at
https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/pdf/2026NHCNewProductsAndServices.pdf

You can also interact with NHC on Facebook at 
https://www.facebook.com/NWSNHC.  Notifications are available via X 
when select National Hurricane Center products are issued. 
Information about our Atlantic X feed (@NHC_Atlantic) is available 
at https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/socialmedia/.

$$
Forecaster Pasch

