
000
AXPZ20 KNHC 060353
TWDEP 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0405 UTC Sat Jun 6 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for the eastern Pacific Ocean from
03.4S to 30N, east of 120W including the Gulf of California, and
from the Equator to 30N, between 120W and 140W. The following
information is based on satellite imagery, weather observations,
radar, and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0000 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through 
0300 UTC.

...SPECIAL FEATURES...

Tropical Storm Amanda is centered near 12.9N 134.3W at 06/0300
UTC, moving southwest at 4 kt, and this general motion is expected
to continue through the weekend. Estimated minimum central pressure
is 1006 mb. Maximum sustained wind speed is 35 kt with gusts to 
45 kt. Peak seas are currently around 4 m, or 13 ft, within 45 nm 
across the NW semicircle. A cluster of moderate to isolated strong
convection remains confined primarily to the western semicircle, 
with the low-level circulation center located near or beneath the 
eastern edge of the deep convection. Gradual weakening is forecast 
on Saturday, and Amanda is expected to degenerate into a remnant 
low on Sunday.

Please read the latest HIGH SEAS FORECAST issued by the National 
Hurricane Center at website - 
https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIAHSFEP2.shtml and the latest 
Amanda NHC Forecast/Advisory and Public Advisory at 
www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

Offshore Southern and Southwestern Mexico (EP91):
A broad area of low pressure located a few hundred miles southwest
of Zihuatanejo, Mexico, is producing a large area of showers and
thunderstorms. Environmental conditions appear conducive for
development of this system, and a tropical depression is likely to
form late this weekend or early next week. The disturbance is
forecast to move northeastward and then northward near the coast
of southern Mexico during the next few days. Interests in southern
Mexico should monitor the progress of this system. Regardless of
development, locally heavy rainfall is possible across portions of
southern Mexico through early next week. Currently, this system
has a medium chance of tropical cyclone formation in 48 hours. 
Refer to the latest NHC Tropical Weather Outlook at 
www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

Offshore of Central America:
Disorganized showers and thunderstorms located offshore of Central
America are associated with a trough of low pressure. Environmental
conditions appear conducive for gradual development of this 
system while it moves slowly northward toward the coast of Central
America, and a tropical depression could form later this weekend 
or early next week if the system remains offshore. Regardless of 
development, locally heavy rainfall is possible across portions of
Costa Rica, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Guatemala through early 
next week. Currently, this system has a medium chance of becoming 
a tropical cyclone during the next 48 hours. Refer to the latest 
NHC Tropical Weather Outlook at www.hurricanes.gov for more 
details.

...INTERTROPICAL CONVERGENCE ZONE/MONSOON TROUGH...

The monsoon trough extends from 11N86W to low pressure (EP91)
located near 14N104W 1009 mb to 10N120W, then resumes SW of Amanda
from 11n134w to 06N140W. Scattered moderate to isolated strong 
convection can be found from 01N to 12N E of 90W, and from 07N to
17N between 94W and 110W. Scattered moderate convection is noted 
from 05N to 11N between 120W and 140W. 

...OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF MEXICO...

A ridge, anchored by a 1030 mb high pressure center located north
of the Hawaiian Islands near 36N152W, extends southeastward 
across the offshore forecast waters of Baja California. This 
pattern is producing gentle to moderate NW to N winds across the 
waters N of Cabo San Lazaro, and moderate to locally fresh NW to N
winds S of Cabo San Lazaro. Winds increase to fresh to strong 
speeds in the vicinity of Cabo San Lucas where an altimeter pass 
indicates seas of 6 to 9 ft. Seas are 5 to 7 ft in mixed NW and SW
swell across the remainder of the Baja California waters, except 
7 to 9 ft in the outer waters N of Punta Eugenia. Inside the Gulf 
of California, gentle to locally moderate S winds generally 
prevail, with seas of 1 to 3 ft across the Gulf, except 3 to 5 ft 
in SW swell across the entrance of the Gulf. Across the remainder 
of the Mexican offshore waters, light to gentle winds dominate, 
with seas of 6 to 8 ft, primarily in SW swell. 

For the forecast, high pressure well NW of the area extending a 
broad ridge into the Baja California waters will weaken slightly 
through Mon as the high drifts to the W. This pattern will support
gentle to moderate NW to N winds through tonight, then diminish 
slightly through Mon, except persisting to fresh speeds near Cabo
San Lucas. Rough seas in building NW swell will propagate across 
the outer offshore waters N of Punta Eugenia through Sun, then 
begin to merge with large S swell Sun night through Tue, raising 
seas to 8 to 9 ft across all Baja waters N of Cabo San Lazaro. 
Southerly winds will pulse to fresh to strong speeds in the Gulf 
of California N of 30N Sat night and Sun night. A broad area of 
low pressure (EP91), with the potential of tropical cyclone formation
is located a few hundred miles southwest of Zihuatanejo, Mexico. 
Please, see the Special Features section for more details.

....OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF CENTRAL AMERICA, COLOMBIA,
AND WITHIN 750 NM OF ECUADOR...

Disorganized showers and thunderstorms located offshore of Central
America are associated with a trough of low pressure. Please, see
the Special Features section for more details.

A weak surface pressure pattern dominates the region. Latest
scatterometer data indicate that a weak low pressure center is 
beginning to develop along 92W. Gentle to locally moderate winds
are associated with this weak low pressure. Moderate to locally
fresh S to SW winds prevail S of the monsoon trough. Seas of 5 to
7 ft, in long period SW swell, dominate the offshore forecast
waters, except 7 to 8 t SW of the Galapagos Islands. 

For the forecast, SW swell will continue to propagate into the 
regional waters, maintaining moderate to rough seas through Sat 
morning, with highest seas around 8 ft expected between Ecuador 
and the Galapagos Islands. New larger SW swell is expected to 
arrive Sat night, propagating northeastward and into the coastal 
waters by late Sun, building seas to 8 to 10 ft between Ecuador 
and the Galapagos Islands. SW to W monsoonal winds are expected 
to strengthen Sat night through Sun and aid in the development of 
low pressure offshore of Central America. Disorganized shower and 
thunderstorm activity is already occurring across these waters. 

...REMAINDER OF THE AREA...

Please see the Special Features section for information on Tropical
Storm Amanda located well SW of Baja California Sur.

High pressure of 1030 mb located north of the Hawaiian Islands 
near 36N152W, dominates the waters N of 15N and W of 115W, 
extending southeastward to S of the Revillagigedo Islands. The 
pressure gradient between the ridge and T.S. Amanda is promoting 
moderate to fresh NE to E winds across the waters N of 12N and W 
of 130W. Seas over these waters and elsewhere N of 10N are in the 
7 to 10 ft range in a mix of trade wind waves and NW to N swell. 
Moderate to fresh N to NE winds prevail N of 27N between 125W and
135W, where seas are 6 to 9 ft in N to NE swell and near 10 ft 
along 30N. Mainly gentle winds are S of the monsoon trough and W 
of 115W, with moderate to locally fresh winds S of the monsoon 
trough and E of 115W. Seas are 5 to 7 ft S of 10N and W of 115W, 
and 7 to 9 ft in mainly S to SW swell elsewhere.

For the forecast, Tropical Storm Amanda will move to 12.7N 134.6W 
Sat morning, weaken to a tropical depression near 12.2N 135.2W 
Sat evening, 11.8N 135.5W Sun morning, become a remnant low and 
move to 11.4N 136.1W Sun evening, 11.0N 137.0W Mon morning, and 
10.7N 138.0W Mon evening. Amanda will change little in intensity 
as it moves to near 10.4N 139.8W late Tue. Meanwhile, the high 
pressure NW of the area will drift W and weaken slightly across 
the area through Mon as Tropical Storm Amanda tracks SW over the 
western portion of the area, resulting in gradually diminishing 
winds across the trade wind zone. Little change is expected 
elsewhere through Sat morning, before large S to SW reaches the 
equator and moves through the regional waters through early next 
week, reaching to 20N Sun night through Mon. Northerly swell in 
the N-central waters with seas of 7 to 10 ft will linger for the 
next several days.

Looking ahead, monsoonal southerly winds are forecast to increase
to at least fresh to strong speeds E of 110W this weekend into 
early next week with possible tropical cyclone formation off both 
southern Mexico and off portions of Central America.

$$
GR/PC
