
143 
AXPZ20 KNHC 080352
TWDEP 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
0405 UTC Mon Jun 8 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for the eastern Pacific Ocean from
03.4S to 30N, east of 120W including the Gulf of California, and
from the Equator to 30N, between 120W and 140W. The following
information is based on satellite imagery, weather observations,
radar, and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0000 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through
0300 UTC.

...SPECIAL FEATURES...

Post-Tropical Cyclone Amanda is centered near 11.3N 136.3W at
08/0300 UTC, moving west at 5 kt. Estimated minimum central
pressure is 1007 mb. Maximum sustained wind speed is 25 kt with
gusts to 35 kt. Peak seas are currently near 3.0 m or 10 ft.
Scattered moderate convection is noted between 60 nm and 120 nm
in the NE quadrant only. The post-tropical cyclone is moving 
toward the west and this motion is generally expected to 
continue over the next several days. The post-tropical remnant
low of Amanda is forecast to dissipate by mid-week. Please read 
the latest HIGH SEAS FORECAST issued by the National Hurricane 
Center at website - https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIAHSFEP2.shtml
and the latest Amanda NHC Forecast/Advisory and Public Advisory 
at www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

Tropical Depression Two-E is centered near 15.3N 99.4W at
08/0300 UTC, moving east-northeast at 2 kt. Estimated minimum
central pressure is 1003 mb. Maximum sustained wind speed is 30
kt with gusts to 40 kt. Peak seas are currently around 4.0 m or
13 ft. Associated convection is embedded within a very large area
of concentrated convection within 600 nm of Mexico and Central
America as described above. The depression is moving slowly 
toward the east-northeast. A turn towards the north is still 
expected later tonight into tomorrow. On the forecast track, the 
center will be nearing the coast of Mexico within the warning 
area on Mon. Some strengthening is forecast, and the depression
is expected to become a tropical storm before reaching the 
coast. Heavy rainfall associated with Tropical Depression Two-E
will impact portions of southern Mexico. This rainfall may 
produce life-threatening flooding and mudslides, especially in 
areas of steep terrain. Please read the latest HIGH SEAS 
FORECAST issued by the National Hurricane Center at website - 
https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIAHSFEP2.shtml and the latest 
Two-E NHC Forecast/Advisory and Public Advisory at 
www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

Offshore of Central America (Invest EP92): Showers and 
thunderstorms associated with a broad area of 1006 mb low 
pressure continue offshore of Central America near 10.5N87.5W.
Associated winds are currently 20 to 30 kt with seas of 8-11 ft. 
Associated convection is embedded within a very large area
of concentrated convection within 600 nm of Mexico and Central
America as described above. Environmental conditions are 
conducive for further development of this system, and a tropical 
depression is likely to form during the next day or two while the
system moves slowly northward toward the coast of Central 
America. Interests along the Pacific coasts of northwestern Costa
Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, and El Salvador should monitor the 
progress of this system. Regardless of development, heavy 
rainfall and life-threatening flash flooding are possible across
portions of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Guatemala 
through early this week. Currently, this system has a high chance
of tropical cyclone formation in the next 48 hours days. Refer 
to the latest NHC Tropical Weather Outlook at www.hurricanes.gov 
for updates.

...INTERTROPICAL CONVERGENCE ZONE/MONSOON TROUGH...

A monsoon trough extends from 10N86W to low pressure, Invest
EP92, near 10.5N87.5W to 14N94W, then resumes SW of Tropical
Depression 10-E near 11N106W to 08N119W to 09N130W. Numerous
moderate isolated to scattered strong within 540 nm of shore
between 77W and 106W. Scattered moderate isolated strong
convection is noted from 07N to 12N between 106W and 111W.

...OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF MEXICO...

A broad ridge extends from a 1032 mb high northeast of the 
Hawaiian Islands near 34N149W southeastward to west of the 
Revillagigedo Islands. Broad low pressure extends from southern 
California south-southwestward across the Baja Norte waters. 
This pattern is producing gentle NW winds with 6 to 7 ft seas in
mixed NW and SW swell across the Baja California waters to the 
Revillagigedo Islands. Moderate N winds and seas 7 to 9 ft in N 
swell prevail across the outer waters of Baja Norte, generally N
trough W of Isla Guadalupe. Fresh to locally strong NW to W 
winds with locally higher seas are present near the coast south 
of Cabo San Lucas. Tropical Depression TWO-E is offshore of 
Acapulco, located near 15.7N99.7W aT 2100 UTC, moving NE at 3 kt,
and remains embedded within a broad and larger cyclonic 
circulation offshore of southern Mexico. This system is producing
fresh to strong SW to W monsoonal winds with 8 to 12 ft seas in 
large SW swell across the outer offshore waters S through SE of
TWO-E. Also part of this broad cyclonic circulation, moderate to
fresh NW winds extend from near Cabo Corrientes to the western
flanks of TWO-E. The entire area E of 104W and Michoacan is 
dominated by numerous bands of heavy showers and thunderstorms.

For the forecast, Tropical Depression Two-E will strengthen to a
tropical storm near 16.0N 99.1W Mon morning, move inland to 
16.8N 99.5W Mon evening, move inland and weaken to a tropical 
depression near 17.8N 100.4W Tue morning, and dissipate Tue 
evening. Large cross- equatorial SW swell will move into the 
regional waters tonight through Mon and combine with rough wind 
driven seas from the tropical storm to produce dangerous marine 
conditions across the waters of Guerrero. Elsewhere, a broad 
surface ridge will sustain gentle to moderate NW winds across the
Baja Norte waters through Mon evening, and across the Baja Sur 
to Revillagigedo Islands through Tue evening before weakening. 
Moderate to fresh NW to N winds and moderate to rough seas will 
prevail across the far outer waters of Baja Norte through early 
Wed. Large, cross equatorial S-SW swell will merge across the 
southwestern Mexico waters late tonight through Tue, and across 
the Baja waters Mon through Tue night. 

....OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF CENTRAL AMERICA, COLOMBIA,
AND WITHIN 750 NM OF ECUADOR...

Clusters of scattered to numerous showers and thunderstorms
prevail across most of the near and offshore waters of Central 
America and southeast Mexico, and are associated with an active 
monsoon trough, and a developing area of low pressure near
10.5N87.5W. Please, see the Special Features section for more 
details.

A weak surface pressure pattern continues N of the region, which
is allow the eastern Pacific monsoonal circulation to dominate 
the region. Recent satellite data indicates that a weak low 
pressure center has develop along the monsoon trough near 88.5W,
while the monsoon trough has lifted to near 11N-12N. Fresh to
locally strong SW to W winds prevail across most of the area 
south of the trough and to the W of Costa Rica. Gentle to 
moderate winds are generally N of the trough. Seas of 7 to 10 ft
in SW swell dominate the offshore waters of Central America W of
84W, and are 5 to 7 ft E of 84W. New cross-equatorial SW swell 
has begun to reach the waters between Ecuador and the Galapagos 
Islands, producing seas of 7 to 10 ft.

For the forecast, new large SW swell will surge across the 
Central America offshore waters today through early Tue. As a 
result, moderate seas will quickly become rough by this evening, 
and then very rough by Mon morning, building to around 11 ft 
between Ecuador and the Galapagos. At the same time, convergent 
monsoonal winds will generate periods of heavy showers and strong
thunderstorms across the regional offshore waters at least into 
early next week. Low pressure south of El Salvador will gradually
strengthen the monsoonal SW to W winds across the offshore 
waters of Central America tonight through Mon night, leading to 
fresh to strong SW to W winds tonight, becoming strong to near-
gale while expanding northward on Mon. Environmental conditions are 
conducive for further development of this system, and a tropical 
depression is likely to form during the next day or two while the
system moves slowly northward toward the coast of Central 
America. Interests along the Pacific coasts of northwestern Costa
Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, and El Salvador should monitor the 
progress of this system.

...REMAINDER OF THE AREA...

Please see the Special Features section for information on Post-
Tropical Cyclone Amanda located across the Tropical Pacific W of
130W.

A broad ridge extends from a 1032 mb high northeast of the 
Hawaiian Islands near 34N149W southeastward to west of the 
Revillagigedo Islands. The pressure gradient south and southeast
of the ridge is producing moderate to fresh NE to E winds with 6
to 8 ft seas across the waters north of 12N and W of 130W, 
except seas are reaching to 10 ft near Amanda. Moderate to fresh
N to NE winds and seas of 8 to 10 ft are found north of 23N 
between 120W and 130W. Mainly gentle winds with seas at 6 to 9 
ft in mixed N and S swell prevail across the remaining waters 
north of the monsoon trough and east of 130W. South of the 
monsoon trough and west of 115W, gentle to moderate SE to SW 
winds and 7 to 10 ft seas in large S-SW swell prevail. Fresh to 
strong SW to W monsoonal winds and 9 to 14 ft seas in new SW 
swell are moving into the waters south of the monsoon trough to 
beyond the Equator and east of 115W. Gentle to moderate SE 
winds and seas of 9 to 12 ft in SW swell prevail the rest of the 
waters south of the Equator.

For the forecast, the aforementioned high pressure will meander
about and weaken slightly across the area through Tue as the
remnant low of Amanda tracks southwestward over the western 
portion of the area, resulting in gradually diminishing winds 
across the trade wind zone. Large S to SW has crossed the 
equator this morning and will continue northward through the 
regional waters through early next week, reaching to 20N tonight 
through Mon. Northerly swell in the north-central waters will 
produce seas of 7 to 10 ft for the next several days. Fresh to 
strong monsoonal SW to W winds should gradually shift northward 
tonight through Mon evening. Seas S of 20N and E of 120W will
peak at 10 to 13 ft seas tonight through Mon night before 
gradually subsiding Tue through Wed.
 
$$
Lewitsky

