
000
AXPZ20 KNHC 092126
TWDEP 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
2205 UTC Tue Jun 9 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for the eastern Pacific Ocean from
03.4S to 30N, east of 120W including the Gulf of California, and
from the Equator to 30N, between 120W and 140W. The following
information is based on satellite imagery, weather observations,
radar, and meteorological analysis.

Based on 1800 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through
2100 UTC.

...SPECIAL FEATURES...

Post-Tropical Cyclone Boris has dissipated in recent hours across
the interior of western Guerrero, Mexico. Scattered showers
continue across much of the interior highlands of the area.
Mostly W to SW winds less than 20 kt currently prevail across the
area coastal waters. However, large cross-equatorial S-SW swell
continues to move into the area coastal waters, generating large
and powerful surf along the coasts. 

Tropical Storm Cristina is centered near 12.7N 87.8W at 2100 
UTC, drifting W-NW at 1 kt. Estimated minimum central pressure 
is 1006 mb. Maximum sustained wind speed is 35 kt with gusts to 
45 kt. Peak seas are currently around 14 ft or 4 m. Strong 
northeasterly vertical wind shear continues to plague Cristina, 
limiting intensification. Scattered to numerous moderate to 
strong convection is noted N of 07.5N between 86W and 90W. 
Cristina is moving toward the north- northeast. Cristina is 
forecast to meander near the coast today as it remains under 
hostile upper level conditions, and is expected to turn toward 
the northwest and west- northwest through midweek. On the 
forecast track, Cristina should move near or along the coast of 
Nicaragua, the Gulf of Fonseca, and El Salvador during the next 
couple of days. Little change in strength is forecast today, 
followed by some weakening through midweek. Heavy rainfall 
associated with Cristina will impact coastal portions of Central 
America through Thursday. This rainfall may produce life- 
threatening flooding and mudslides, especially in areas of steep 
terrain. In addition, large cross-equatorial S-SW swell is slowly
subsiding across the regional waters this morning, but will 
continue to produce large and powerful surf along the southern 
Mexican coast through Wed morning. Please read the latest HIGH 
SEAS FORECAST issued by the National Hurricane Center at website
- https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIAHSFEP2.shtml and the latest 
Cristina NHC Forecast/Advisory and Public Advisory at 
www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

...INTERTROPICAL CONVERGENCE ZONE/MONSOON TROUGH...

A monsoon trough extends from 14N92W to 16N95W to 09N111W to
08.5N127W. The ITCZ extends from 08.5N127W to 10N138W. Other 
than the convection described above associated with Cristina, 
scattered moderate convection is noted from 01.5N to 07N between  
80W and 92W, and from 04N to 08N W of 128W. Scattered moderate 
isolated strong convection is noted from 08N to 17N between 93W 
and 104W.

...OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF MEXICO...

A broad ridge extends from a 1030 mb high well NE of the 
Hawaiian Islands near 34N146W southeastward to W of the 
Revillagigedo Islands near 20N120W. Broad low pressure extends 
from southern California SSE into Baja California Norte. This 
pattern is supporting gentle to moderate N-NW winds offshore of 
Baja California Norte, with fresh winds across the outer waters
NW of Isla Guadalupe. Gentle to locally moderate NW to N winds
prevail offshore of Baja California Sur. NW winds near the coast
at Cabo San Lucas continue to wrap round the southern end of the
peninsula, resulting in fresh westerly winds near the southern 
tip of Baja California, while a few areas of moderate W gap 
winds prevail inside the southern Gulf of California. Seas of 7 
to 9 ft in merging N and S-SW swell continue across the Baja 
waters, except to 10 ft N through W of Isla Guadalupe. Gentle S 
winds are in the northern Gulf of California N of 30N, where 
seas are 1-2 ft. light and variable winds prevail across the
central Gulf. Strong southerly swell moving into the entrance of
the Gulf is producing seas of 4-7 ft in southern portions. 
Moderate to locally fresh NW to W winds prevail elsewhere from 
Cabo Corrientes to offshore of Tehuantepec, where seas are 8-13 
ft in large, cross- equatorial S-SW swell. Scattered showers and
isolated thunderstorms are seen across the waters N of 13N
between Tehuantepec and Michoacan.

For the forecast, a broad surface ridge extending into the 
waters W of the Revillagigedo Islands will weaken and shift
Wed through the upcoming weekend, as broad low pressure along the
coast of southern California drifts westward. This will lead to
light to gentle winds across the waters of Baja California, and
moderate to locally fresh SW to S winds inside the Gulf of
California. Afternoon and evening winds will pulse moderate to
locally fresh near the coast Fri through the weekend. Northerly
swell will merge with strong S swell moving through the Baja
waters this afternoon through Wed to maintain rough seas before
subsiding. Gentle to locally moderate NW to W winds will dominate
the waters between Cabo Corrientes and Tehunatepec through Fri,
then weaken into the weekend. large cross-equatorial S-SW swell
dominating those waters will gradually subside tonight through
Wed.

....OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF CENTRAL AMERICA, COLOMBIA,
AND WITHIN 750 NM OF ECUADOR...

Please see the Special Features section for details on Tropical 
Storm Cristina, just offshore of extreme NW Nicaragua. Cristina 
remains in a hostile upper-level environment and it meandering
this afternoon.

Numerous moderate to strong convection continues across the 
waters N of 10N to the vicinity of Cristina, between the coast of
Nicaragua and the offshore waters of Guatemala, fueled by fresh 
to locally strong SW to W monsoonal winds well to the south of 
Cristina. Large cross equatorial S-SW swell continues to dominate
the regional seas this afternoon, producing seas of 8 to 13 ft 
across most of the area W of 86W, and 7 to 10 ft E of 86W. 
Moderate to locally fresh SE winds extend from coastal Ecuador 
through the Galapagos Islands, while winds and light and variable
elsewhere E of 85W. 

For the forecast, Tropical Storm Cristina will meander this
evening, then begin to move W-NW through Wed, reaching39 near 
12.8N 88.2W tonight, near 13.0N 88.8W Wed afternoon, and then
inland near 13.5N 89.2W Wed night. Slight strengthening is
possible. Heavy rainfall is expected across coastal portions of 
Nicaragua and El Salvador and may produce life-threatening 
flooding and mudslides, especially in areas of steep terrain.
Otherwise, large cross-equatorial S-SW swell will continue to 
impact the regional this afternoon through Wed before subsiding,
resulting in large and powerful surf along the coasts. Refer to 
your local meteorological information for more details on the 
surf zone and beach impacts. Gentle to moderate winds and
moderate seas will prevail across the offshore waters Thu into
the weekend. 

...REMAINDER OF THE AREA...

The 1012 mb Remnant Low of Amanda is analyzed near 10.5N140.5W. 
Small clusters of moderate convection are noted within 120 nm 
across the N and NE semicircle. Fresh to strong NE winds are 
found within 210 nm in the N and NW semicircle, with seas of 
7-9 ft are found from 09N to 20N between 120W and 140W. 
Otherwise, a broad ridge extends from a 1030 mb high well NE of 
the Hawaiian Islands near 34N146W southeastward to W of the 
Revillagigedo Islands. Moderate to fresh N to NE winds are found 
elsewhere S of the ridge to 10N and W of 120W. Seas are 6-9 ft 
elsewhere N of 10N and W of 110W, and 5 to 6 ft N of 26N and W of
130W. Merging N and S swell prevail across the waters N of 20N
and E of 125W, producing seas of 8 to 10 ft.

For the forecast, the Remnant Low of Amanda will continue 
W of 140W and weaken further. Moderate to locally fresh trades 
will continue to dominate the waters N of 10N and W of 120W under
the broad ridge through Wed, then will weaken as the high begins
to shift NE through the end of the week. Winds will be moderate 
or weaker elsewhere through tonight through Wed. Meanwhile, 
northerly swell in the N-central waters will produce seas of 7-10
ft for the next several days, merging with large cross- 
equatorial southerly swell. Moderate seas will dominate the open
waters by the end of the week into the upcoming weekend.
 
$$
Stripling
