
138 
AXPZ20 KNHC 130848
TWDEP 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1005 UTC Sat Jun 13 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for the eastern Pacific Ocean from
03.4S to 30N, east of 120W including the Gulf of California, and
from the Equator to 30N, between 120W and 140W. The following
information is based on satellite imagery, weather observations,
radar, and meteorological analysis.

Based on 0600 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through
0800 UTC.

...INTERTROPICAL CONVERGENCE ZONE/MONSOON TROUGH...

The monsoon trough extends from 11.5N97W to a 1009 mb low 
pressure near 08N123W to 08N140W. Scattered to numerous moderate
and isolated strong convection is noted from 04N to 11N between 
120W and 140W. Scattered moderate convection is depicted from 
04.5N to 12N between 94W and 116W. 

...OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF MEXICO...

A weak pressure gradient prevails across the area. With the weak
pressure gradient, light to gentle winds prevail over the
discussion waters, except gentle to locally moderate winds off 
Cabo San Lucas. Seas are in the 5-6 ft range over the open 
waters off Mexico, and 3 ft or less in the Gulf of California.
The interaction between a trough over Mexico and the Monsoon
Trough is supporting scattered moderate convection over the Gulf
of Tehuantepec. 

For the forecast, light to gentle winds will prevail across the 
waters of Baja California through Sat night, increasing slightly 
thereafter. Gentle to occasionally moderate S to SW winds are 
expected inside the Gulf of California and near the tip of Baja 
California Sur. Light to gentle winds will dominate the waters 
between Cabo Corrientes and Tehunatepec.

....OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF CENTRAL AMERICA, COLOMBIA,
AND WITHIN 750 NM OF ECUADOR...

Moderate to locally fresh NW to N winds prevail in the Gulf of 
Papagayo. Southeast to south gentle to moderate winds prevail 
between the Galapagos Islands and Colombia. Light to gentle 
winds are found elsewhere. Seas are in the 5-7 ft range between 
the Galapagos Islands and Colombia, and 4-6 ft elsewhere. The 
southern end of a tropical wave over the western Caribbean is 
supporting scattered moderate convection over the offshore waters
of Colombia. 

For the forecast, gentle to moderate winds and moderate seas 
will prevail across the offshore waters into the weekend. Winds 
may pulse to moderate to locally fresh in diurnal offshore flow 
in the immediate Gulf of Papagayo and near the Gulf of Guayaquil 
during the upcoming weekend into early next week.

...REMAINDER OF THE AREA...

Broad troughing prevails across the waters N of 18N. The 
pressure gradient between this trough, and high pressure NW of 
the area is supporting moderate NE winds over the NW waters. 
Gentle to moderate winds are elsewhere N of the monsoon trough 
and west of 130W. Light to gentle winds prevail elsewhere N of 
the monsoon trough. Moderate to fresh winds are S of the monsoon 
trough and W of 126W, with gentle to moderate winds elsewhere. 
Northerly swell is bringing rough seas over the waters N of 28.5N
between 131W and 138W. Mainly moderate seas are found elsewhere,
except locally rough to 8 ft south of the equator. 

For the forecast, moderate or weaker winds are expected across 
the much of the open waters, except at least moderate to fresh 
winds near transient embedded low pressure areas along western 
portion of the monsoon trough through early next week. Northerly 
swells mixed with the longer period southerly swells with seas of
7-8 ft will linger across the N-central waters through this
morning before decaying. Moderate seas will dominate the open 
waters. Locally rough seas will prevail over the S-central 
waters through today. 
 
$$
KRV

