
129 
AXPZ20 KNHC 011530
TWDEP 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1605 UTC Wed Jul 1 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for the eastern Pacific Ocean from
03.4S to 30N, east of 120W including the Gulf of California, and
from the Equator to 30N, between 120W and 140W. The following
information is based on satellite imagery, weather observations,
radar, and meteorological analysis.

Based on 1200 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through
1500 UTC.

...SPECIAL FEATURES...

Tropical Depression Four-E is centered near 14.8N 126.7W, or
about 1070 nm WSW of the southern tip of Baja California, at 
01/1500 UTC, moving north at 5 kt. Estimated minimum central 
pressure is 1005 mb. Maximum sustained wind speed is 30 kt with 
gusts to 40 kt. Seas of up to 4 m extend eastward up to 120 nm
from the center. Scattered moderate convection is noted SE of the
center from 09N to 15N between 124W and 131W. TD Four-E is
expected to continue moving N with little change in speed through
Thu. Some slight strengthening is forecast and Four-E is forecast
to become a tropical storm later today or tonight.

Please read the latest HIGH SEAS FORECAST 
issued by the National Hurricane Center at website

- https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIAHSFEP2.shtml and the latest 
Four-E NHC Forecast/Advisory and Public Advisory at 
www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

...TROPICAL WAVES...

A tropical wave is near 116W from 18N southward, and moving 
westward at 5 to 10 kt. Scattered moderate to isolated strong 
convection is noted from 08N to 16N between 110W and 121W.

Another tropical wave is now analyzed along 92W from Guatemala
southward, moving W at 10 kt. Scattered moderate convection is
noted from 04N to 09N between 87W and 97W. 

...INTERTROPICAL CONVERGENCE ZONE/MONSOON TROUGH...

A monsoon trough extends westward from 10N85W to 05N102W to 
15N123W. Numerous moderate to scattered strong convection is 
near the monsoon trough from 01N to 09N east of 87W. Scattered 
moderate to isolated strong convection is noted from 02N to 15N 
between 97W and 121W.

...OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF MEXICO...

A broad surface ridge extends from the northeast Pacific, 
southeastward through 30N136W to near the Revillagigedo Islands.
This pressure pattern is supporting gentle to moderate NW to N 
winds and seas of 5 to 7 ft in NW swell across the Baja 
California waters. Inside the Gulf of California, moderate SW to
W winds and seas of 3 to 4 ft are present in the northern Gulf, 
while gentle to moderate S to SW winds and seas at 2 to 4 ft 
generally prevail across the rest of the Gulf. Light to gentle 
winds dominate the remaining waters from the Revillagigedo 
Islands to near Salina Cruz, with seas of 4 to 6 ft in primarily 
cross- equatorial S swell. A narrow channel of fresh N gap winds 
continues across the Gulf of Tehuantepec, extending offshore to 
near 14N. Seas are 5 to 7 ft across this area. Scattered 
thunderstorms continue across the far offshore waters S of 12N, 
offshore of the coasts of eastern Guerrero to Chiapas.

For the forecast, the broad surface ridge extending 
southeastward across the eastern Pacific to near the 
Revillagigedo Islands will begin to drift southwestward and 
weaken slightly today through the remainder of the week. This 
pattern will produce gentle to moderate winds across the Baja 
waters through Sat, with locally fresh winds possibly each late 
afternoon and evening. Moderate NW swell moving across these 
waters will maintain moderate seas through Thu, except rough seas
across the far western offshore waters of Baja Norte. A narrow 
channel of fresh N to NE gap winds will continue to pulse to 
strong, and sustain moderate to rough seas across the Gulf of 
Tehuantepec region from the nighttime to late morning hours each 
night and morning through Sat morning. Moderate to fresh W to SW 
gap winds are also expected in the northern Gulf of California 
until late this morning. 

....OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF CENTRAL AMERICA, COLOMBIA,
AND WITHIN 750 NM OF ECUADOR...

Fresh to strong NE to E gap winds continue to dominate the 
Papagayo region and extend offshore to near 92W and northward 
across southwestern Nicaragua. Seas are 7 to 9 ft across this 
area. Gentle winds and seas at 4 to 6 ft in S to SW swell 
prevail across the remainder central America and Colombia 
offshore waters N of 02N. Moderate S winds and 6 to 8 ft seas in
cross-equatorial S swell dominate waters S of 02N between the 
Galapagos Islands and Ecuador. Refer to the INTERTROPICAL 
CONVERGENCE ZONE/MONSOON TROUGH section for information on 
convection in the region.

For the forecast, pulsing fresh to strong gap winds and moderate
to rough seas will continue across the Papagayo region through 
Fri, and then begin to weaken slightly this weekend. NE to E 
swell generated by these winds is expected to maintain moderate 
to locally rough seas well downstream to beyond 90W. Farther 
south, cross-equatorial southerly swell will keep moderate to 
locally rough seas near the Galapagos Islands and off Ecuador 
through Thu morning. Periods of heavy showers and strong 
thunderstorms persisting near the Colombia coast, and across the 
southern offshore waters of Costa Rica and Panama will continue 
to expand northward into the northern offshore waters today. 

...REMAINDER OF THE AREA...

Please see the Special Features section on Tropical Depression 
Four-E.

A broad surface ridge extends from the northeast Pacific
southeastward through 30N130W to just N of the Revillagigedo 
Islands, and is supporting moderate to fresh NE winds, and 6 to 
8 ft seas in N to NE swell, north of the monsoon trough and west 
of 120W, outside the vicinity of Tropical Depression (TD) Four-E.
East of 120W and north of the monsoon trough, gentle to moderate
NE to E winds and 6 to 7 ft seas in mixed moderate swell 
prevail. Light to gentle winds and seas at 6 to 8 ft in mixed 
moderate swell are noted near and south of the monsoon trough to 
near 04N. Moderate to locally fresh SE to S winds with 6 to 8 ft 
seas in cross- equatorial S and SE swell prevail elsewhere south 
of 04N. 

For the forecast, as TD Four-E gradually tracks NNW over the next
few days, a large swath of fresh to strong winds and rough seas 
farther NW and N of Four-E will move ahead of the system. Outside
of this system, little changes are anticipated north of the ITCZ
for the next several days. South of the ITCZ, a gradual decrease
in both winds and seas will occur by Thu.

$$
Konarik

