
000
AXPZ20 KNHC 061555
TWDEP 

Tropical Weather Discussion
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1605 UTC Sat Jun 6 2026

Tropical Weather Discussion for the eastern Pacific Ocean from
03.4S to 30N, east of 120W including the Gulf of California, and
from the Equator to 30N, between 120W and 140W. The following
information is based on satellite imagery, weather observations,
radar, and meteorological analysis.

Based on 1200 UTC surface analysis and satellite imagery through
1530 UTC.

...SPECIAL FEATURES...

Tropical Storm Amanda is centered near 12.5N 134.6W at 1500 UTC,
moving southwest at 4 kt. Estimated minimum central pressure is 
1006 mb. Maximum sustained winds are 35 kt with gusts to 45 kt. 
Peak seas are currently near 4 m, or 13 ft, within 30 nm across 
the western semicircle. Amanda remains a sheared system, with a
large cluster of strong convection 30 to 180 nm NW of the center, 
and with the low-level circulation center exposed to the
southeast of the deep convection. Gradual weakening to a tropical
depression is forecast later today, and Amanda is expected to 
degenerate into a remnant low late Sunday afternoon.

Please read the latest HIGH SEAS FORECAST issued by the National 
Hurricane Center at website - 
https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/MIAHSFEP2.shtml and the latest 
Amanda NHC Forecast/Advisory and Public Advisory at 
www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

Offshore Southern and Southwestern Mexico (EP91):
A broad area of low pressure is located along the monsoon trough,
a few hundred miles southwest of Zihuatanejo, Mexico.
Environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development
of this system while it moves slowly north to northeastward
toward the coast of southwestern Mexico, and a tropical
depression is likely to form Sunday or early next week. The 
disturbance is forecast to move northeastward and then northward 
near the coast of Oaxaca and Guerrero States in Mexico during the
next few days. Interests in southwestern Mexico should monitor 
the progress of this system. Regardless of development, locally 
heavy rainfall is possible across southern Mexico through early 
next week. Currently, this system has a high chance of tropical 
cyclone formation in next 7 days. Refer to the latest NHC 
Tropical Weather Outlook at www.hurricanes.gov for more details.

Offshore of Central America:
A trough of low pressure is currently offshore of Central
America, producing sporadic heavy showers and isolated strong
thunderstorms across the regional offshore waters. Environmental
conditions appear conducive for gradual development of this
system while it moves slowly northward toward the coast of
Central America. If the system remains offshore, a tropical
depression could form by early next week. Regardless of
development, locally heavy rainfall is possible across portions
of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Guatemala through
early next week. Currently, this system has a medium chance of
tropical cyclone formation in next 7 days.. Refer to the latest 
NHC Tropical Weather Outlook at www.hurricanes.gov for more 
details.

...INTERTROPICAL CONVERGENCE ZONE/MONSOON TROUGH...

A monsoon trough extends from 10.5N74W to 11.5N80W to low
pressure located near 09.5N89.5W 1009 mb to 10.5N98W to 
09.5N105W. ITCZ continues westward from 09.5N105W to 09N126W to 
08N130W. Scattered to numerous moderate to strong convection is 
noted N of 00.5S and E of 84W, from 04.5N to 18N between 84W and 
106W. Scattered to locally numerous moderate isolated strong 
convection is noted from 05N to 11N between 106W and 124W. Widely
scattered moderate convection is noted from 00N to 08.5N between
124W and 133W. 

...OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF MEXICO...

A ridge, anchored by a 1030 mb high pressure center located north
of the Hawaiian Islands near 36N152W, extends southeastward 
across the offshore forecast waters of Baja California Sur and to
the Revillagigedo Islands. Weak low pressure is across the 
coastal waters of southern California. This pattern is producing 
light to gentle NW winds across the waters N of Cabo San Lazaro, 
and moderate to locally fresh NW winds S of Cabo San Lazaro. 
Winds increase to fresh to strong speeds in the vicinity of Cabo 
San Lucas where recent satellite altimeter data indicated seas of
6 to 8 ft. Seas are 6 to 7 ft in mixed NW and SW swell across 
the remainder of the Baja California waters, except 7 to 9 ft in 
the outer waters N of Punta Eugenia. Inside the Gulf of 
California, gentle to locally moderate S to SW winds generally 
prevail, with a few small areas of moderate to fresh westerly 
gap winds. Seas of 1 to 3 ft across the Gulf, except 3 to 5 ft in
SW swell across the entrance of the Gulf. Across the remainder 
of the Mexican offshore waters, gentle to moderate winds prevail,
and are strongest W of EP91. Seas of 6 to 8 ft in SW swell
continue across these waters. Scattered to locally numerous
moderate to strong showers and thunderstorms continue across
much of the waters from Tehuantepec to Colima.

For the forecast, a broad surface ridge extending southeastward
into the Baja Sur waters will sustain gentle to moderate NW winds
across the Baja waters through Mon, with fresh to locally strong
NW to W winds persisting near Cabo San Lucas through Tue 
evening. Fresh to locally strong S to SW winds are expected in 
the northern Gulf of California until Sun night. A combination of
NW and S-SW swell will prolong moderate to rough seas west of 
Baja Norte into midweek next week, and near Baja Sur and the 
Revillagigedo Islands Mon through Wed. The low pressure (EP91) 
along the monsoon trough mentioned in the Special Features 
section will strengthen monsoonal SW to W winds across the 
offshore waters of southern Mexico by late Sun or early Mon. 
These winds could reach strong to near-gale force along with very
rough seas in large SW swell.

....OFFSHORE WATERS WITHIN 250 NM OF CENTRAL AMERICA, COLOMBIA,
AND WITHIN 750 NM OF ECUADOR...

Disorganized clusters of showers and thunderstorms across the 
near and offshore waters of Central America are associated with 
the monsoon trough, and a developing area of low pressure along 
89W-90W. Please, see the Special Features section for more 
details.

A weak surface pressure pattern dominates the region. Recent
satellite scatterometer data indicates that a weak low pressure 
center is beginning to develop along 89W-90W, while the monsoon
trough has lifted to near 11N. Gentle to moderate SW to W winds 
prevail across most of the area S of the trough, except higher 
near showers and thunderstorms. Seas of 5 to 7 ft  in SW swell  
dominate the forecast waters, except to 8 ft SW of the Galapagos
Islands. 

For the forecast, SW swell across the region will gradually 
build across the regional waters over the next several days. As 
a result, moderate seas will becoming rough by Sun, and then very
rough in the offshore waters of Central America by late Sun or 
early Mon. Convergent monsoonal winds will keep sporadic heavy 
showers and strong thunderstorms across the regional offshore 
waters at least into early next week. Low pressure south of 
El Salvador and Guatemala mentioned in the Special Features 
section will strengthen monsoonal SW to W winds across the 
offshore waters of Central America by Sun evening. These winds 
could reach strong to near- gale force early next week. 

...REMAINDER OF THE AREA...

Please see the Special Features section for information on Tropical
Storm Amanda located across the Tropical Pacific W of 130W.

High pressure of 1030 mb located north of the Hawaiian Islands 
near 36N151W, dominates the waters N of 15N and W of 118W, 
extending southeastward to the Revillagigedo Islands. The 
pressure gradient between the ridge and T.S. Amanda is promoting 
moderate to fresh NE to E winds across the waters N of 12N and W 
of 130W. Seas over these waters and elsewhere N of 10N are in the
7 to 10 ft range in a mix of trade wind waves and NW to N swell.
Moderate to fresh N to NE winds prevail N of 26N between 120W 
and 135W, where seas are 6 to 9 ft in N to NE swell and 10 ft 
N of 28N. Mainly gentle winds are S of the monsoon trough and W 
of 115W, with moderate to locally fresh winds S of the monsoon 
trough and E of 115W. Seas are 6 to 9 ft S of 10N and W of 95W.

For the forecast, Tropical Storm Amanda will move to 12.2N 
135W late this afternoon, weaken to a tropical depression near 
11.6N 135.3W Sun morning, become a 30 kt remnant low near 11.2N 
135.8W late Sun afternoon, then continue southwestward through
Tue. Meanwhile, the high pressure NW of the area will drift W 
and weaken slightly across the area through Mon as Tropical Storm
Amanda tracks SW over the western portion of the area, resulting
in gradually diminishing winds across the trade wind zone. Large
S to SW will reach the equator this afternoon and move through 
the regional waters through early next week, reaching to 20N Sun 
night through Mon. Northerly swell in the N-central waters will
produce seas of 7 to 10 ft for the next several days.

Looking ahead, monsoonal southerly winds are forecast to increase
to at least fresh to strong speeds E of 110W this weekend into 
early next week with possible tropical cyclone formation off both 
southern Mexico and off portions of Central America.

$$
Stripling
