
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 240503
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 PM PDT Thu Jul 23 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Hurricane 
Fausto, located well east-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands.

Eastern and Central East Pacific (EP98):
An area of low pressure located several hundred miles south of the 
coast of southern Mexico is producing a large area of showers and 
thunderstorms that are showing signs of becoming better organized. 
Environmental conditions appear conducive for additional development 
of this system, and a tropical depression or storm is likely to form 
in the next day or so, while the system moves generally 
west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph and remains well offshore of 
Mexico. Additional information on this system, including storm 
warnings, can be found in High Seas Forecasts issued by the National 
Weather Service.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well Southwest of Hawaii:
An area of low pressure located well southwest of the Hawaiian 
Islands is producing disorganized showers and thunderstorms.  
Environmental conditions appear conducive for some gradual 
development of this system while it moves slowly west to 
west-northwestward, and a tropical depression is likely to form 
after it enters the western Pacific basin later this weekend or 
early next week.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

&&
High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEPI, WMO header FZPN02 
KWBC, and on the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEPI.php 

Products issued by the U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center can be 
found at: www.metoc.navy.mil/jtwc/jtwc.html

Official tropical cyclone forecast information issued by the Japan 
Meteorological Agency for the western Pacific basin can be found at:
www.jma.go.jp/jma/jma-eng/jma-center/rsmc-hp-pub-eg/RSMC_HP.html

$$
Forecaster Mahoney/Kelly
