
448 
ABPZ20 KNHC 141726
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Tue Jul 14 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico (EP96):
Showers and thunderstorms continue to become better organized and 
are producing gusty winds in association with an area of low 
pressure located a few hundred miles south-southwest of the coast of 
southwestern Mexico. The circulation is also becoming better 
defined. If current trends continue, a tropical depression or 
tropical storm is expected to form later today while the system 
moves generally west-northwestward, staying well offshore of the 
coast of Mexico. For additional information, including gale 
warnings, please see High Seas Forecasts issued by the National 
Weather Service.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...near 100 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...near 100 percent.

Well South of the Hawaiian Islands (CP91):
Shower and thunderstorm activity remains limited in association with 
a broad area of low pressure located several hundred miles south of 
the Hawaiian Islands. A tropical depression could still form over 
the next day or two while the system moves little. The disturbance 
is expected to move into less favorable environmental conditions 
later this week, likely ending its chances of development.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...40 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

Well Southwest of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles to the 
southwest of the Hawaiian Islands continues to produce an area of 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions 
appear favorable for gradual development, and the system could 
become a tropical depression later in the week while it moves 
slowly northwestward, remaining well southwest of the Hawaiian 
Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Offshore of Southern and Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form later this week several 
hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico. Environmental 
conditions appear conducive for gradual development of this system 
thereafter, and a tropical depression is likely to form by the end 
of the weekend while it moves generally west-northwestward well 
offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

&&

High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service can be 
found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEP1, WMO header FZPN02 KWBC, and on 
the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEP1.php

$$
Forecaster Katz/Hagen

