
718 
ABPZ20 KNHC 131736
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Mon Jul 13 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico (EP96):
A tropical wave is producing a large area of disorganized 
thunderstorms and gusty winds a couple of hundred miles south of the 
coast of southwestern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear 
favorable for development, and a tropical depression is expected to 
form over the next couple of days while the system moves generally 
west-northwestward, remaining off the coast of Mexico. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well South of the Hawaiian Islands (CP91):
Showers and thunderstorms are showing signs of organization in 
association with a broad area of low pressure located several 
hundred miles south of the Hawaiian Islands. Additional development 
of this system is possible during the next couple days as it moves 
little, and a tropical depression could form while the system 
remains well south of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...50 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Well Southwest of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles to the 
southwest of the Hawaiian Islands is producing an area of 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions 
appear favorable for gradual development of this system later this 
week, and it could become a tropical depression as it moves slowly 
northwestward, remaining well southwest of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
A trough of low pressure located well west-southwest of the southern 
tip of the Baja California Peninsula continues to produce scattered 
showers and thunderstorms to the east of its center. Environmental 
conditions have become unfavorable for the system, and development 
is no longer anticipated.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...near 0 percent.

Offshore of Southern and Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form by the middle of the 
week several hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico.  
Environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development of 
this system thereafter, and a tropical depression could form by the 
end of the weekend while it moves generally west-northwestward well 
offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

$$
Forecaster Hagen

