
355 
ABPZ20 KNHC 140517
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 PM PDT Mon Jul 13 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico (EP96):
A tropical wave is producing a large area of disorganized 
thunderstorms and gusty winds a couple of hundred miles south of the 
coast of southwestern Mexico.  This system is gradually becoming 
better organized, and environmental conditions appear favorable for 
continued development.  A tropical depression is expected to form 
during the next day or so while the system moves generally 
west-northwestward, staying offshore of the coast of Mexico. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...80 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well South of the Hawaiian Islands (CP91):
There has been little change in the organization of a broad area 
of low pressure located several hundred miles south of the Hawaiian 
Islands.  The system is producing a small area of near gale-force 
winds, mainly in gusts, over its southwestern side.  However, the 
system lacks a well-defined surface circulation.  If the 
circulation becomes better defined, a tropical depression or 
tropical storm could form over the next day or two while the system 
moves little.  The disturbance is expected to move into less 
favorable environmental conditions later this week, likely ending 
its chances of development.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

Well Southwest of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles to the 
southwest of the Hawaiian Islands continues to produce an area of 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms.  Environmental conditions 
appear favorable for gradual development, and the system could 
become a tropical depression later in the week while it moves 
slowly northwestward, remaining well southwest of the Hawaiian 
Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Offshore of Southern and Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form later this week several 
hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico.  Environmental 
conditions appear conducive for gradual development of this system 
thereafter, and a tropical depression could form by the end of the 
weekend while it moves generally west-northwestward well offshore of 
Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

$$
Forecaster Pasch

