
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 111144
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM PDT Sat Jul 11 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

South of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
A trough of low pressure, located several hundred miles south of the 
Hawaiian Islands, is producing a small area of showers.  Further 
development of the system appears to be diminishing while it moves 
generally westward across the central Pacific, remaining well south 
of the Hawaiian Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...30 percent.

Well Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles southeast of 
the Hawaiian Islands is producing disorganized showers and 
thunderstorms.  Environmental conditions appear favorable for 
gradual development of this system, and a tropical depression could 
form by mid-next week while it moves generally westward across the 
central Pacific, remaining well south of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
A tropical wave located well southwest of the Baja California 
peninsula is producing disorganized showers and thunderstorms.  
Some slow development of this system is possible while it moves 
slowly west-northwestward.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form over the next couple of 
days, several hundred miles south-southwest of the southwestern 
coast of Mexico.  Environmental conditions appear favorable for 
gradual development thereafter, and a tropical depression is likely 
to form by mid-next week while the system moves generally 
west-northwestward. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

$$
Forecaster Roberts
