
935 
ABPZ20 KNHC 151146
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM PDT Wed Jul 15 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on recently 
upgraded Tropical Storm Elida, located several hundred miles 
south of the southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula. 

Well Southwest of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
A trough of low pressure located well southwest of the Hawaiian 
Islands and several hundred miles south-southeast of Johnston Atoll 
continues to produce disorganized showers and thunderstorms. 
Environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development of 
the system over the next several days, and it could become a 
tropical depression by the end of the week while it moves slowly 
northwestward toward the vicinity of Johnston Atoll.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...50 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

Well South-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (CP91):
A broad area of low pressure located several hundred miles 
south-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands is producing limited shower 
and thunderstorm activity. Environmental conditions are becoming 
less favorable, and its chances for further development are 
decreasing.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

Offshore of Southern and Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form later this week several 
hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico. Environmental 
conditions appear conducive for gradual development of this system 
thereafter, and a tropical depression is likely to form by this 
weekend into early next week while it moves generally 
west-northwestward well offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high..80 percent.

&&

Public Advisories on Tropical Storm Elida are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ35 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPEP5. 
Forecast/Advisories on Tropical Storm Elida are issued under 
WMO header WTPZ25 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMEP5.

$$
Forecaster Papin/Katz

