
164 
ABPZ20 KNHC 101731
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Fri Jul 10 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

South-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
Shower and thunderstorm activity associated with a trough of low 
pressure located several hundred miles south-southeast of the 
Hawaiian Islands has diminished slightly since yesterday. However, 
environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development of 
this system through early next week, and a tropical depression could 
form while the system moves generally westward across the central 
Pacific, remaining well south of the Hawaiian Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...40 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Well Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:
A trough of low pressure with a small cluster of showers and 
thunderstorms continues to move generally westward and is located 
about 800 miles southeast of the Hawaiian Islands. Environmental 
conditions appear favorable for some slow development of this 
system, and a tropical depression could form next week as it moves 
mainly westward over the central Pacific, remaining well south of 
the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form late this weekend or 
early next week several hundred miles south-southwest of the coast 
of southwestern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear favorable 
for gradual development thereafter, and a tropical depression is 
likely to form next week while the system moves generally 
west-northwestward. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
Another area of low pressure could form by early next week well 
southwest of the Baja California peninsula.  Some slow development 
of this system is possible next week while it moves slowly 
northwestward.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

$$
Forecaster Katz/Berg

