
836 
ABPZ20 KNHC 061721
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Sat Jun 6 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Amanda, located well east-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands.

Offshore Southern and Southwestern Mexico (EP91):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a broad area of low 
pressure located a few hundred miles south-southwest of Zihuatanejo, 
Mexico, are beginning to show signs of organization. Environmental 
conditions appear conducive for additional development, and a 
tropical depression is likely to form within the next day or so. 
The disturbance is forecast to move northeastward and then 
northward, and approach the coast of southern Mexico Sunday night 
and Monday. Interests in southern Mexico should monitor the progress 
of this system. Regardless of development, heavy rainfall and 
life-threatening flash flooding are possible across portions of 
southern Mexico through early next week. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

Offshore of Central America (EP92):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a broad area of low 
pressure offshore of Central America have increase in coverage 
since yesterday.  Environmental conditions appear conducive for 
development and a tropical depression is likely to form while the 
system moves slowly northward toward the coast of Central America.
Interests along the Pacific coasts of northwestern Costa Rica, 
Nicaragua, Honduras, and El Salvador should monitor the progress of 
this system.  Regardless of development, heavy rainfall and 
life-threatening flash flooding are possible across portions of 
Costa Rica, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Guatemala through early 
next week. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

$$
Forecaster Brown

