
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 111743
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Sat Jul 11 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
A broad area of low pressure is located several hundred miles south 
of the southwestern coast of Mexico.  Environmental conditions 
appear favorable for gradual development of this system, and a 
tropical depression is likely to form by mid-next week while the 
system moves generally west-northwestward. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
Showers and thunderstorms have increased during the past several 
hours in association with a trough of low pressure located well 
southwest of the Baja California peninsula.  Some slow development 
of this system is possible over the next couple of days.  By the 
middle of next week, environmental conditions are expected to 
become less conducive for development while it moves slowly 
west-northwestward.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

Well Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles southeast of 
the Hawaiian Islands is producing disorganized showers and 
thunderstorms.  Environmental conditions appear favorable for 
gradual development of this system, and a tropical depression could 
form by mid-next week while it moves generally westward across the 
central Pacific, remaining well south of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

South of the Hawaiian Islands (formerly CP90):
A trough of low pressure, located several hundred miles south of 
the Hawaiian Islands, is producing a small area of showers.  
Further development of the system appears to be unlikely while it 
moves generally westward across the central Pacific, remaining well 
south of the Hawaiian Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...10 percent.

$$
Forecaster Roberts
