
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 132302
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 PM PDT Mon Jul 13 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico (EP96):
A tropical wave is producing a large area of disorganized 
thunderstorms and gusty winds a couple of hundred miles south of the 
coast of southwestern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear 
favorable for continued development, and a tropical depression is 
expected to form over the next couple of days while the system moves 
generally west-northwestward, staying offshore the coast of Mexico. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...80 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well South of the Hawaiian Islands (CP91):
Showers and thunderstorms have been persisting near the center of a 
broad area of low pressure located several hundred miles south of 
the Hawaiian Islands. Recent satellite-derived wind data indicate 
that the system is producing a small area of near gale-force winds, 
mainly in gusts, over its southeastern side. However, the system 
lacks a well-defined surface circulation. If the circulation 
becomes better defined, a tropical depression or tropical storm 
could form over the next day or two while the system moves little.  
The disturbance is expected to move into less favorable 
environmental conditions later this week, likely ending the chances 
of development.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

Well Southwest of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles to the 
southwest of the Hawaiian Islands continues to produce an area of 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions 
appear favorable for gradual development, and it could become a 
tropical depression later in the week as it moves slowly 
northwestward, remaining well southwest of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Offshore of Southern and Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form by the middle of the 
week several hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico.  
Environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development of 
this system thereafter, and a tropical depression could form by the 
end of the weekend while it moves generally west-northwestward well 
offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

$$
Forecaster Cangialosi/Kelly
