
499 
ABPZ20 KNHC 062345
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 PM PDT Sat Jun 6 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Depression Amanda, located well east-southeast of the Hawaiian 
Islands.

Offshore Southern and Southwestern Mexico (EP91):
A low pressure system located a couple of hundred miles south of 
Zihuatanejo, Mexico is producing a broad area of showers and 
thunderstorms. This system has become more organized today and a 
tropical depression will likely form tonight or tomorrow. The 
disturbance is forecast to move northeastward and then northward, 
and will approach the coast of southern Mexico Sunday night and 
Monday. Interests in southern Mexico should monitor the progress of 
this system. Regardless of development, heavy rainfall and 
life-threatening flash flooding are possible across portions of 
southern Mexico through early next week. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...80 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Offshore of Central America (EP92):
Shower and thunderstorm activity associated with a broad area of low 
pressure offshore of Central America has changed little in 
organization during the last several hours. Additional development 
is still expected, and a tropical depression is likely to form 
during the next day or two while the system moves slowly northward 
toward the coast of Central America. Interests along the Pacific 
coasts of northwestern Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, and El 
Salvador should monitor the progress of this system. Regardless of 
development, heavy rainfall and life-threatening flash flooding are 
possible across portions of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and 
Guatemala through early next week. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

$$
Forecaster D. Zelinsky

