
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 131145
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM PDT Mon Jul 13 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
A tropical wave is producing a large area of disorganized 
thunderstorms and gusty winds a couple of hundred miles south of the 
coast of southern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear favorable 
for continued gradual development, and a tropical depression is 
expected to form within the next two to three days while the system 
moves generally west-northwestward, well off the coast of Mexico. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...60 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well South of the Hawaiian Islands:
A broad area of low pressure located several hundred miles south of 
the Hawaiian Islands continues to produce a large area of 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Additional development of 
this system is possible during the next several days as it moves 
little. A tropical depression could form later this week while the 
system remains well south of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

Well Southwest of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles to the 
southwest of the Hawaiian Islands is producing an area of 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions 
appear favorable for gradual development of this system later this 
week and it could become a tropical depression as it moves slowly 
northwestward, remaining southwest of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
An area of low pressure located well west-southwest of the Baja 
California Peninsula continues to produce disorganized showers and 
thunderstorms, primarily east of its center. This system is moving 
west-northwestward into less favorable environmental conditions, 
and additional development is unlikely. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...10 percent.

Offshore of Southern and Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form by the middle of the 
week several hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico.  
Environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development of 
this system thereafter, and a tropical depression could form by the 
weekend while it moves generally west-northwestward well offshore of 
Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

$$
Forecaster Papin
