
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 120511
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 PM PDT Sat Jul 11 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
A broad area of low pressure located several hundred miles south of 
the coast of southern Mexico is producing a large area of 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions 
appear favorable for gradual development of this system, and a 
tropical depression is expected to form during the early to middle 
part of next week while the system moves generally 
west-northwestward well off the coast of Mexico. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...40 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
An area of low pressure located well west-southwest of the Baja 
California Peninsula continues to produce disorganized showers and 
thunderstorms. Some gradual development is possible over the next 
couple of days before the system moves west-northwestward into a 
region of strong upper-level winds and drier air. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

Well South-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles 
south-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands is producing disorganized 
showers and thunderstorms. Gradual development of this system is 
possible during the next several days as it moves generally westward 
across the central Pacific, remaining well south of the Hawaiian 
Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...30 percent.

Offshore of Southern and Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form by the middle of next 
week several hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico.  
Environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development of 
this system later next week while it moves generally 
west-northwestward well offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

$$
Forecaster Gibbs/Cangialosi
