
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 241137
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM PDT Fri Jul 24 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Hurricane 
Fausto, located well east-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands.

Eastern and Central East Pacific (EP98):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with an area of low pressure 
located several hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico 
have become better organized overnight.  Environmental conditions 
are conducive for additional development of this system, and a 
tropical depression or storm is likely to form later this morning 
while the system moves generally west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph 
and remains well offshore of Mexico.  Additional information on this 
system, including storm warnings, can be found in High Seas 
Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...near 100 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...near 100 percent.

Well Southwest of Hawaii:
An area of low pressure located well southwest of the Hawaiian 
Islands is producing disorganized showers and thunderstorms.  
Environmental conditions appear conducive for some gradual 
development of this system while it moves slowly west to 
west-northwestward, and a tropical depression is likely to form 
after it enters the western Pacific basin over the weekend or early 
next week.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

&&
High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEPI, WMO header FZPN02 
KWBC, and on the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEPI.php 

Products issued by the U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center can be 
found at: www.metoc.navy.mil/jtwc/jtwc.html

Official tropical cyclone forecast information issued by the Japan 
Meteorological Agency for the western Pacific basin can be found at:
www.jma.go.jp/jma/jma-eng/jma-center/rsmc-hp-pub-eg/RSMC_HP.html

$$
Forecaster Roberts
