
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 102327
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 PM PDT Fri Jul 10 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

South-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
Shower and thunderstorm activity associated with a trough of low 
pressure located about 500 miles south of Hilo, Hawaii, remains 
limited and disorganized. Environmental conditions appear conducive 
for gradual development of this system through early next week, and 
a tropical depression could form while the system moves generally 
westward across the central Pacific, remaining well south of the 
Hawaiian Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Well Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:
A trough of low pressure located about 800 miles southeast of Hilo, 
Hawaii, is producing disorganized showers and thunderstorms. 
Environmental conditions appear favorable for gradual development of 
this system, and a tropical depression could form next week as it 
moves generally westward across the central Pacific, remaining well 
south of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
A trough of low pressure well southwest of the Baja California 
peninsula is producing disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Some 
slow development of this system is possible during the next few 
days while it drifts northwestward. By early next week, this system 
is expected to move into unfavorable environmental conditions, 
likely ending its opportunity to develop.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form late this weekend or 
early next week several hundred miles south-southwest of the coast 
of southwestern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear favorable 
for gradual development thereafter, and a tropical depression is 
likely to form by the middle of next week while the system moves 
generally west-northwestward. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

$$
Forecaster Gibbs/Cangialosi
