
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 121732
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Sun Jul 12 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
A tropical wave associated with a broad area of low pressure located 
several hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico 
continues to produce a large area of disorganized showers and 
thunderstorms. Environmental conditions remain favorable for gradual 
development of this system, and a tropical depression is expected to 
form during the early to middle part of the week while the system 
moves generally west-northwestward, well off the coast of Mexico. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...40 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
An area of low pressure located well west-southwest of the Baja 
California Peninsula continues to produce disorganized showers and 
thunderstorms primarily east of its center. Some additional 
development of this system is possible over the next day or so 
before it moves west-northwestward into a less favorable 
environment. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

Well South of the Hawaiian Islands:
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles south of the 
Hawaiian Islands is producing a large area of disorganized showers 
and thunderstorms. Gradual development of this system is possible 
during the next several days as it drifts slowly westward in the 
central Pacific, remaining well south of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...30 percent.

Well Southwest of the Hawaiian Islands (Ex-CP90):
A trough of low pressure located several hundred miles to the 
southwest of the Hawaiian Islands is producing a concentrated area 
of showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions appear 
favorable for gradual development of this system during the next 
several days as it moves slowly westward to northwestward, 
remaining southwest of the Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...30 percent.

Offshore of Southern and Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is expected to form by the middle of this 
week several hundred miles south of the coast of southern Mexico.  
Environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development of 
this system later this week, and a tropical depression could form by 
the end of the week while it moves generally west-northwestward well 
offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

$$
Forecaster Papin
