
000
ABPZ20 KNHC 170535
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 PM PDT Thu Jul 16 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Elida, located several hundred miles southwest of the southern 
tip of the Baja California Peninsula.

Well Southwest of the Hawaiian Islands (CP90):
A broad area of low pressure located a few hundred miles southeast 
of Johnston Atoll is producing disorganized showers and 
thunderstorms well to the east of its center. Development of this 
system, if any, is expected to be slow to occur while it moves 
slowly westward at about 10 mph during the next day or so.  
Environmental conditions are expected to be unfavorable for 
development by this weekend.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...10 percent.

Central and Western East Pacific:
A tropical wave located several hundred miles south-southwest of 
the coast of southern Mexico is producing a large area of 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions 
appear conducive for development of this system, and a tropical 
depression is likely to form by this weekend while it moves 
west-northwestward to northwestward at 10 to 15 mph over the central 
portion of the Eastern Pacific.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...60 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high..90 percent.

Eastern and Central East Pacific:
A broad area of low pressure is forecast to develop well to the 
south of Mexico during the middle to latter part of next week. 
Environmental conditions could support some gradual development of 
this system thereafter while it moves westward to west-northwestward 
across eastern and central portions of the Eastern Pacific.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent. 
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

$$
Forecaster Berg
